Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so let's start with this class. Can you hear me? Can you see me?
Sunny Savita: Can you, please give me quick confirmation in the chat?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: I think I'm audible, right? Great.
Sunny Savita: So, let's, begin, let's start with the class, guys. In the previous class, I was talking about the hugging Face. So, have you joined my previous session?
Sunny Savita: Or you have gone through with the recording.
Sunny Savita: all the recordings and resources, everything is updated over the dashboard itself. If you are not aware about it, please go and check out with the resource section of every video, right? Inside every video, you will get our resources.
Sunny Savita: I was getting a couple of query related to that. I think it is there, okay? Let me quickly check that.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, once you will go and check with your course.
Sunny Savita: Okay, open your dashboard, and after opening your dashboard… where is your dashboard? Just a second.
Sunny Savita: So guys, once you will open your dashboard now.
Sunny Savita: It will look like this only.
Sunny Savita: And here you will find out all the recordings.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the last, this is the recording from the last class.
Sunny Savita: Now, please go and check out with the resource section. You will get all the resources over here. Along with that, you will get all the resources from my GitHub itself, okay?
Sunny Savita: So I'm updating all my resources.
Sunny Savita: a place inside the single repository, related to all the theoretical session, even the practical. So, once you will go and check with my GitHub. Just write Sunny Savita GitHub.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: just write Selisa with a GitHub over your Google.
Sunny Savita: And you will get that.
Sunny Savita: inside the generative AI repository.
Sunny Savita: Okay, inside this particular repository.
Sunny Savita: So, these are the resources from the last session, from the last class. Now, guys, inside this particular session, we are going to discuss couple of more things related to the hugging Face.
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, I will start with the fine-tuning, okay? We'll take any model, any model from the Hugging Face, from any open source place, right?
Sunny Savita: And will it fine-tune that particular model? So, if you are not aware about it, we are into the fine-tuning chapter. So, may I know in the chat how many of you are following to me in the live classes?
Sunny Savita: Means you are, joining every live session.
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. I think many of you, you are joining our regular sessions. That is good, guys.
Sunny Savita: That's great. Anyone who's a new joinee who have joined this class first time?
Sunny Savita: Okay, Amit is our new joinee, Amit and Pankaj. So, guys, you can check out the recording, right? All the recordings are all everything. It is updated over the dashboard itself. Got it? So right now, we are into the fine-tuning chapter, and we already discussed the introduction of the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: we discussed, basically, Hugging Face, okay? We started with the Hugging Face, and in the previous class, basically, we were talking about the Hugging Face API, right? Hugging Face Hub API. Now, guys, inside today's session, we are going to discuss a few more things related to the Hugging Face.
Sunny Savita: So, let me tell you the agenda of today's session, and even for upcoming next, even for next two to three more sessions. So, the first thing which we are going to discuss…
Sunny Savita: more concepts of Hugging Face, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, we'll discuss a little more concept of the hugging phase, then I will show you the full-fledged fine-tuning with the hugging phase. So, we'll understand, we'll see full-fledged F-L-E-D-G-E, full-fledged fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: pipeline.
Sunny Savita: using Hugging Face, okay? Now, along with the Hugging Face, guys, I introduced one more thing. So, one more framework. So, the framework name was the, Unslot, okay? So, fine-tuning Pipeline.
Sunny Savita: fine-tuning pipeline using Unslot.
Sunny Savita: Got it. Then the fourth one is going to be, we'll discuss couple of more topic, more, different concept of the fine-tuning. So I'll discuss about the LoRa, what is the LoRa, right? I'll discuss about the Q-LoRa.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And a couple of more techniques we have apart from the LoRa and QLORA, so that also I can give you as an assignment, so that you can export it from your end, right? So, DORA, most probably, I will give you as an assignment, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, we have a couple of more things, right? If we're talking about the fine-tuning. So, we can, basically perform this RLHF training. This is called the preference tuning. We can perform the DPO kind of training, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, we'll discuss about this also. So, this is going to be agenda for next upcoming 3 to 4 classes. So, today, I'll discuss more concept of the hugging phase. The remaining concept of the hugging phase, let me write the correct terminology over here.
Sunny Savita: remaining concepts of the hugging phase. Then full-fledged fine-tuning pipeline is the hugging phase. So here, mainly, we are going to be discuss the instruction tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So we'll take a raw data.
Sunny Savita: Right? We'll take our raw data, and with that raw data, basically what we are doing, we are going to be perform the instruction tuning. Raw data can be present anywhere, in any document.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Whether it's a PPT, PDF, or any text document, anywhere this raw data could be present. Or we can directly take, we can directly, basically, we can directly, consume a data, the formatted data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, I can directly take a data from the various resources, from the Hugging Face, from the Hugging Face and all, from different places, okay? So, we can even use the inbuilt data. So, let me write over here, custom.
Sunny Savita: raw data.
Sunny Savita: Custom raw data.
Sunny Savita: and inbuilt.
Sunny Savita: instruction.
Sunny Savita: Instruction.
Sunny Savita: Tuning data.
Sunny Savita: From hugging Face, or from any sort of places.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: From any sort of a place. So guys, this is going to be a main topic. This is going to be what is going to be our main topics, which we are going to be discussing next upcoming, two to three classes, okay? So this week and the next weekend, I will mainly focus on these concepts.
Sunny Savita: Understood?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, how to prepare a data for the fine-tuning and all, everything you will understand. So, once I show you this full-fledged pipeline, everything is going to be clear over here. Got it? So, next 2 through 3 classes, we are going to discuss all this thing. And then, guys, we'll start with our RAG chapter. So, RAG and multimodal RAG, okay?
Sunny Savita: So we are, going to be discussing this RAG and multimodal RAG, then agent, and the other concepts. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, will you be start project after that? Yes. After completing this one, basically, what I'm thinking, I'm thinking to cover the core concept of the generative AI, and then we'll discuss about the project, okay?
Sunny Savita: Manoj is saying, what is RLHF? What is RLHF? I will discuss that, Manoj. Once I will come to that topic, no, we'll come to that. I will explain you that RLHF and all everything. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, whatever we have learned so far, guys, are you enough confident in all those concepts?
Sunny Savita: Can you hear me? No sign, Bevo. I cannot hear you. You can talk with me in the doubt session. So once you will raise a hand, I will give you the access. You can unmute yourself, and you can discuss your doubts and all everything. Got it?
Sunny Savita: As of now, it is a one-way communication. You can write your doubts and all everything in the chat. So, again, Yash is with me, so he's in a backend, so he might reply to you. Otherwise, if any of the doubt is going to be, remaining, right, you can discuss in a doubt class. Got it? Is it clear?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Great. What is a rag? MMRAG is a multi-model rag.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, practice is required. So, do as much as practice, guys. Please focus on the assignment, because after this, after this topic also, I will give you the assignment, okay? A very big assignment.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, tomorrow is a Bing IPL final, can we have a break for tomorrow class? Guys, do you want a break for tomorrow's session?
Sunny Savita: From tomorrow's class.
Sunny Savita: I think everyone's, wants to be enjoy the final, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, what I'll do, I will take 2 hours of session, okay?
Sunny Savita: 8 to 10, I can take a class, and then, I can, basically conclude that. What's this?
Sunny Savita: Or else, I can move it into the weekdays also. If you want, guys, I can move it to the weekdays.
Sunny Savita: If you agree, then I can move it to the Wednesday also.
Sunny Savita: Is it fine?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, even I have an office, so after the office, I will take the class.
Sunny Savita: So, let's do one thing, guys, let's decide it later on.
Sunny Savita: Okay? As of now, I'm not making any conclusion. If you're not getting any cancellation mail, that means class would be there, okay? Got it?
Sunny Savita: Good.
Sunny Savita: Send a poll. Just a second.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I'll launch a poll, you can, write your answer there.
Sunny Savita: You can give the…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so guys, I launched one poll. Please, can you… are you able to see over your screen? If you're able to see, then give your opinion over there, okay? You can, give your opinion over there.
Sunny Savita: weekdays… The competition is very tough.
Sunny Savita: It's kind of 50-50,
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Uda, just give me 2 minutes, okay? I'll come back to the class, don't worry.
Sunny Savita: Fine, so guys, 10 more seconds.
Sunny Savita: After the dial, close the poll.
Sunny Savita: 4, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0. Okay, fine.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the result. I think we should have a class tomorrow. Many… 57% people are saying we should have a class tomorrow, and 43% people are saying we should have enough weekdays. So, I will go with the majority, and we will be having class in… we will be having class tomorrow, okay?
Sunny Savita: I'm not going to be canceled. I'll take… I will not take a doubt session, okay? I'll, release you after the doubt class. Is it fine? Tell me yes or no? Is it clear? Okay, great, fine.
Sunny Savita: Thank you. So, let's begin, let's start with the class.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, in the previous class, we were talking about the Hugging Face, okay? So, this is the, like, code, the entire code, basically, we have related to the hugging phase. So, mainly, we discuss about what? Mainly, we discuss about the Hugging Face API. So, I hope, guys, this entire code is clear, related to the Hugging Face API.
Sunny Savita: If you don't have this code, I can provide you this code so that you can go through with it, and even you can run it along with me, if you are willing. Otherwise, just listen to me as of now, okay? So guys, this was the entire code, and I discussed about the Hugging Face API, okay? And
Sunny Savita: here you can see, how, basically we can, load the model via Hugging Face, okay, and each and everything I've shown you. And even I've shown you via lanction as well. So, if you will, look into the Langshan code, so here is the Langshan code.
Sunny Savita: So, I was reading the model from the hugging Face, and then we were doing some sort of a inferencing from there, right? So, I hope this part was clear.
Sunny Savita: But, Hugging Face is providing us, so many different, different library, and even I discuss about those libraries in the previous classes, right? The library name is a Transformer, library name is Accelerator, Paft, okay, and SFT. So many different, different libraries you will get, over the Hugging Face. So, for sure, we are going to be exploring those libraries in our upcoming session.
Sunny Savita: But first of all, let me show you a few more things via hugging phase. Let me show you a couple of more concept, couple of more things, couple of more native and the fundamental concept of the hugging phase, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, guys, this entire thing was clear. Now, let's do one thing. Let's start after this one, okay? So, let me put the date, because still here, I already discussed in my previous class, and I hope so you have this entire code. If you don't have, you can directly take it from the GitHub. Now, from here itself, we are going to be discuss, so from here itself, guys, we are going to be discussing today's class, okay?
Sunny Savita: So I will complete this Hugging Face part, and then after only, we'll start with the fine-tuning, chapter. Sorry, fine-tuning practical.
Sunny Savita: So, I will show you the full-fledged pipeline of the fine-tuning. So, guys, here you can see. So, let me put the date first of all, so that you can make a clear-cut discrimination.
Sunny Savita: So today's date is the 30th of May 2026, right?
Sunny Savita: Now guys, how you will get this entire code? So this, code, basically, I already capped, into my, GitHub, okay? If I didn't cap, let me push it over there, let me check, did I create a new folder or not inside the same, basically, folder.
Sunny Savita: So here, I created a new folder. The folder name is this Class 20, 30th of May.
Sunny Savita: So, once you will go through with this particular folder, you will get the updated code, okay? Hugging Face Live Class Updated File. You can, basically check out with this file. Inside this particular file, you will get the entire updated code.
Sunny Savita: Right? If you don't have it, guys, let me push it to the… let me push it to the GitHub, so directly you can download it from there itself. So, give me a moment, I am pushing this entire code.
Sunny Savita: to the GitHub, okay?
Sunny Savita: If you got the code, just let me know. I pushed it over the GitHub. Here, guys, you can see.
Sunny Savita: This one?
Sunny Savita: Now, just, refresh your GitHub, okay, just open my GitHub repository, and then refresh that GitHub repository. You will get the code over there.
Sunny Savita: So the code is available inside this particular folder.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: It's okay, things are. What you can do, see, even if I'm taking a class tomorrow, you can watch out the recording in a weekdays itself, right? Let's say if you're not willing to join because of the IPL final or something like that, right? So it's a personal thing.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, did you get it? Once you got the code, just let me know so that I can proceed.
Sunny Savita: So, here, you will find out the previous class code, right? So, this is the updated file, here you will get all the updated code. This one.
Sunny Savita: If you're getting any sort of error right while you are opening this file inside of GitHub, just download it inside your local. Smith, how many times should I repeat this thing?
Sunny Savita: See, even I'm getting this error.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Even I'm getting this error. See, what is this error now, actually? The error is very simple.
Sunny Savita: Nb convert means what? Notebook format convert.
Sunny Savita: So, whenever this file is getting opened over the GitHub now, so it is not supporting this notebook format.
Sunny Savita: Means, when we execute the cell of the notebook now, so it showcases some output, right? So that output is not supporting over here, and because of that, it gives this error.
Sunny Savita: If you're getting this kind of error now, inside your system, or inside your GitHub, simply download the file.
Sunny Savita: Because this is not an issue with the file. This is an issue with the GitHub, actually.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: you can, discuss in the live class… sorry, live doubt session overshita.
Sunny Savita: If you have any sort of a doubt related to the previous class. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Okay, thank you. So, guys, I hope you got the code, but here I will suggest you, please focus over the class. Later on, you can execute this code by yourself. Okay, I've just given you for your reference only, right? So you won't panic, and even you can open that side by side.
Sunny Savita: So, we are working with a Google Collab, and I think I already shown you how to work with a Google Collab, and why we are working with a Google Collab? So that we can access the free GPUs, okay? And this is a more convenient one, convenient place where we can, avail the GPU.
Sunny Savita: And we can perform the training. So, as of now, we are into the free version of the collab, but if you are doing any heavy training with the heavy model.
Sunny Savita: You can even purchase the Google Collag Pro. Making sense to all of you? Is it getting clear?
Sunny Savita: Great. Now, how we will get the remember of this code? No need to remember the code. Just understand the code location. Understood? Now, here, I will select the runtime and change the runtime. First, I will select the GPU.
Sunny Savita: And after that, I'll save that, and I will connect that, okay? So my GPU is connected.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, over here, guys, what we are doing… so, first of all, what I'll do… so, Hugging phase, how… actually, it is having one more thing, right? So, from here itself, from our notebook itself, we can create our notebook… sorry, we can create our repository over the hugging phase.
Sunny Savita: I think this particular thing I haven't shown you in my previous class, right? So for that, guys, what you have to do… see, I already written a code so that I can save my time, and if I'm going to be write a code from scratch, so that could be very challenging, right? I cannot explain you so many things, so many concepts.
Sunny Savita: I will just be writing a code. So what I did, I written a code over here, so that I can explain you, and you can easily grab that thing, okay? And as much as thing I kept over here inside this notebook itself, you will not face any issue while you are running it from your end. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now over here, guys, what we are doing, so we are going to be import the Hugging Face API, okay? And we are going to be import the Google Collab user data. So, now here what I'm doing, guys, see, first, I'm creating an object of the Hugging Face API class.
Sunny Savita: And there, I'm, like, basically defining this parameter, token parameter. So, whenever we're talking about the hugging phase, so we have two types of parameter. The first type of… sorry, we have two types of token. The first type of token is called the read token.
Sunny Savita: Okay, with this particular token, we can read anything from… Hugging face, okay?
Sunny Savita: And the second type of token is called the write token.
Sunny Savita: What is the use of this write token? So, if I wanted to write anything, if I wanted to upload anything over the hugging Face, I can utilize this particular token. So, if we want to
Sunny Savita: Upload.
Sunny Savita: anything.
Sunny Savita: over the hugging face, okay? Then we will use… then we will use… write token.
Sunny Savita: Got it, guys? So, in the previous class only, if you remember in the previous class only, I told you that whatever we are going to be upload over the Hugging Face, we are going to be uploaded inside the repository. Yes or no? Tell me. So, like we are doing over the GitHub, right? So, we have Git…
Sunny Savita: And, to this Git, this GitHub is associated.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Similar to that, if we are talking about the hugging phase, so with that, this hugging Face hub is associated.
Sunny Savita: Hugging Face Hub is associated. So what we can do, we can upload, or we can download anything from the Hugging Face Hub. Now, we're talking about the Docker, guys. So, with the Docker, this Docker hub is associated, okay?
Sunny Savita: Docker Hub is associated. If we're talking about the OLAMA, so with this OLAMA, this OLAMA hub is associated.
Sunny Savita: Right? So over the hub, what you will get over the hub, if we're talking about the Hugging Face Hub specifically, so there you will get the different, different models, you will get the different, different data sets.
Sunny Savita: Right? Which we can directly utilize. Okay? Which we can directly utilize. And, where you will get all these things, so we'll get this entire thing inside the Hugging Face repository.
Sunny Savita: Right? Inside the Hugging Face repository. If you don't know about it, let me show you. So, once we will write Hugging Face over the Google.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so you will get this website.
Sunny Savita: you will get the website. Now, once you will open that, now let's, let's say if I wanted to check with a model. So, once I will open any sort of a model, let's say if I'm going through with this particular model, this one, DeepSea.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, here you can see, so this deep-seq model is available. Now, where is available? Where are all the files and, where are all the files and everything is available? So, it is available under this repository. So, this repository, actually, it is similar to the hugging, this GitHub repository.
Sunny Savita: And we can create this repository, okay? Either we can create manually from here, or else we can create directly through the notebook.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Is this thing getting killer to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, yes or no. So, directly from here also, you can create a repository. How you will create a repository? Directly from here. So, you just need to click on this new model, new data set, new space, new bucket, right? Anywhere, if you are going to be clicked, you can create a new repository. So, let's say if I'm going to be clicked onto this new model.
Sunny Savita: So, after that, I can write my model name. Okay, let's say I'm writing over here.
Sunny Savita: testing model.
Sunny Savita: Testing model. I can write the name over here, testing model.
Sunny Savita: for GenAI Bootcamp. So, this is my repository name, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, testing model for my GenAI Bootcamp, I can select the license also. So, whatever, under whatever license I wanted to publish my repository, I can make it public and private, similar to the GitHub, okay, and then I can create a model. So, once I will create a model, guys, so see, this repository is created.
Sunny Savita: So, here is all the metadata. I can, configure all my metadata related to what, related to my model, and here you will get your… here you will get your… all the files and folder, okay? Whatever model files you have, you can update it over here.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the model, guys? So, model is nothing, it's just a binary file. After the training, guys, you will just get a binary file, and that file, we can upload it over here. Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: What is this repository for? This repository, basically, to keep the model or to the data set. Let's say we are doing a fine-tuning. Now, after the fine-tuning, we want to keep that model somewhere.
Sunny Savita: Right? You created a project, you've written a code.
Sunny Savita: after writing a code, after writing the project, where you will keep that? You will keep it over the GitHub, correct? You will keep it over the GitHub. In a similar way, we are going to train a model. In a similar way, we are going to train a model. Now, where we can keep that model after the training? So, we can keep it over the Hugging Face Hub.
Sunny Savita: We can keep it over the Hugging Face Hub, and where we will keep it over the Hugging Face Hub, so we are going to be keep it inside the repository, Hugging Face repository. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now, if you want to check out any binary file, let's say, you wanted to look into any binary file, how it looks like. So, can you see this DeepSeek repository? Now, under this DeepSeek repository, just go inside this files and version.
Sunny Savita: Now, once we will go open this file send warmer, right? So, can you see the save tensor file? This one?
Sunny Savita: Can you see this saved tensor file? So, this saved tensor file only, it is a model.
Sunny Savita: This is only the binary file. Can you see the size of the safe tensor file? You can see the size of the SafeTensor file also. 13.9GB, 13.9 GB. So what's the meaning of it, guys? So the meaning is basically that this is our trained model.
Sunny Savita: We don't keep, our, transformer-based model, means LLM model, into the PQL file, into the HPI file, okay, into the
Sunny Savita: savv file, we always keep it inside the more advanced version, more advanced binary version, like SafeTensor, GGML, GGUF, right? So we keep our file into this particular format, not into the pical file or in any, like, HPI format. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Why so many files? Because it is having different, different version, actually. It is having a different, different version. So is this part clear, guys? Yes or no? Why to create a repository over the Hugging Face Hub?
Sunny Savita: Why to create a repository over the hugging phase?
Sunny Savita: If it is getting clear, please let me know. And all the files are not a model file, there is some metadata file also, okay? So as we will progress, you will get that, right? So all the file is not a model file, so here you will get the README file, config.json, generation config. So inside the JSON files, inside the JSON files, basically, you will get the metadata, metadata related to the model and all.
Sunny Savita: Understood? Is it getting clear to all of you? Great. Now, guys, I hope this entire thing is clear. So let's do one thing, guys. Let's try to create one repository from our notebook itself. Now, first of all, tell me this repository concept is clear to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: If this concept is clear, please let me know in the chat. You can write yes, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope this is clear. It's not a very difficult thing. Even you can do it from your end as well. Now, what I'm doing, guys, so,
Sunny Savita: Someone is showing, please show the metadata. Alright, Raji, let me execute that now. Once I'll show you any sort of a model and all, I'll show you that, why you're worrying about it.
Sunny Savita: Should I leave this one, and should I show you the metadata right now? Hmm?
Sunny Savita: Let's go step by step, right? So, over here, guys, I'm going to be create this API object. I'm going to be create this API object, with the right token. Now, can anyone tell me why we are doing it with the right capability?
Sunny Savita: Tell me why we are doing with the right capability. So, we are creating it with the right capability, so that we can write something over the hugging face, okay?
Sunny Savita: So we have read token, we have write token, we have both kind of token. So, let me load this both token. Now, tell me, guys, if we're talking about the hugging phase, right? So, let's say if we are not going to be define any token, right? This, HF read, HF write. So, by default, which name is being considered, by default, which name is being considered to set the environment variable from the hugging phase?
Sunny Savita: HF underscore token, okay? hf underscore token. There you can define the read value, as well as the write value. So here, if you will look into my previous session, so there I haven't defined any sort of a parameter.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, by default, it was taking the read val… by default, it was taking the HF underscore token, and to that HF underscore token, I defined the read value.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So, either I can define that manually, that particular token, read and write. If I'm not going to be defined, so it will consider what? It will consider HF underscore token as an environment variable, and whatever value are going to be defined over there related to that environment variable, hf underscore token.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So guys, be cautioned over here, if you are not going to define anything over here. So, by default, it will consider HF underscore token, that environment variable. I think many of you, you were getting the error in the previous class.
Sunny Savita: So this is a variable, hf underscore token, which is being considered by default. hf underscore right, hf underscore right, hf underscore right, hf underscore read. This is for just our understanding. This is just for our understanding. Making sense? Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now over here, guys, what we are doing, so, here, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Let me do one thing. Let me, basically create an object of it, okay? So, I define the token over here, and the token with the right. So, this is the one. I think this is fine. Now, API object is being created. Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be create a repository. So, this is what, this is my username, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, guys, I'm just going to write my repository name. So, let me write the repository name, some unique name over here. So, my testing…
Sunny Savita: My.
Sunny Savita: testing repository for model, alright? So I'm going to create a repository for model. I can create it for the data also, I can create it for the space also, where I can keep my… all the
Sunny Savita: application, right? Running application inside the space. So, if you will go and check out with the hugging Face, okay, and if you will click on this, profile icon, now over here you will get… what you will get, guys, you will get our different, different option.
Sunny Savita: Like, model, data set, space, bucket.
Sunny Savita: Okay, collection. So, you can create anything. As of now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to be create… let me open the code again. So, as of now, guys, what I'm going to do, I'm going to be create a model-related repository.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So this is the code. So I'm going to be create a model-related repository, and I'm not keeping it private, okay? Private is equal to false. I'm keeping it public only.
Sunny Savita: Now, once I will run it, guys, once I will execute it, so automatically the repository will be created where over the hugging phase. Now, if you want to check where I will get the repository, so just click on this profile icon, just click on your username, okay? Now, here, guys, you will get your model repository.
Sunny Savita: So, can you see, guys, this is my testing… my testing repository for model. It is just created one minute ago, and see, inside this particular repository, now what I can do, I can upload my model. So, whatever model I'm training, whatever model I'm fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: I can upload that fine-tuning model over here. Understood, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Yes, Mantaj. HF underscore token can perform both read and write according to the value, okay? Either you can define explicitly inside the Hugging Face API, read and write to the token value.
Sunny Savita: If you are not going to define, then by default, it will consider the HF underscore token as an environment variable. And to that particular environment variable, you can give the read value, or you can provide the write value. Understood?
Sunny Savita: Carrying my point? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay, I think two persons was having this question, Chandra and Manta. I think it is clear, right? Great. So, now tell me, guys, is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So here, after the training, so once, what we will do, we will train our model, we will fine-tune the model, and after the fine-tuning, we are going to be keep it inside this particular repository. If this thing is making sense to all of you, please let me know, I'll proceed further, okay?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, if this thing is clear to all of you, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, now, Hugging Face token, sorry, this, basically repository creation is fine. Now, let's say if you wanted to upload a new file over there.
Sunny Savita: Can you upload it over there? Yes, you can upload. So for that, we have a function, API upload. Okay, once you will call this particular function API upload. Now, here you will have to give your file location, where your file is available.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, path in a repo, okay, what is your file name, where it is available inside your folder, and here you will have to provide your repo ID. So, this is my repo ID, guys, I'm just going to be copy this repo ID.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: And after that, I'm going to be pasted over here. So this is what, this is my repo ID.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and now, guys, what I'll do, I'll create a folder over here. Either you can read the file from the drive, or you can read file from anywhere, from any cloud location, right? Now, here I'm uploading a file inside the local directory here itself.
Sunny Savita: So for that, what I'm doing, I'm just going to create one folder. Okay, random file, any random file, I'm showing you with a random file only.
Sunny Savita: So this is my testing file, so test underscore file. So, this is my folder name.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside this folder name, what I'm doing, I'm uploading a file. So, for that, I will just do the right-click, okay, and after that, I'll upload a file. So, here I created one dummy file, data set underscore info.json. This is just a dummy file, just to showcase you the process. I'll copy the path of it, and I'll keep it over here.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, and after that, guys, I'll, give the file name. So, this is the file name, and this is the repository ID. Now, once I will execute it, guys, so what I'll get, so here, I will get my file. So let me check with my repository. As of now, it is empty. Now, once I'll refresh it, guys, so here you can see.
Sunny Savita: I'm getting my file. Is it visible to all of you? If it is visible, just let me know in the chat.
Sunny Savita: If you can see this particular file.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, fast, if it is clear. So, how to upload a file from the Hugging Face app? I hope this thing is clear.
Sunny Savita: Side-by-side, you can look into the code, no need to execute that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, no need to execute that. You can just look into the code I have already provided you via GitHub. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, we have a couple of more ways to log in. Let's say if you are working with a notebook, and let's say, your read and write token is not working. Okay, so directly you can log in to the hugging phase from the notebook itself. So this is a simple function for that. Let's say notebook underscore login. So, from the hugging phase hub, we have one more function, notebook underscore login. So once you will run it, guys, so here.
Sunny Savita: it will ask you, okay? It will ask you, basically, which token, which token you wanted to log in, whether it's a read and write, okay? So, you can provide the token value, and you can log in. I already logged in, that's why it is not showing me. If I will restart my runtime, it will definitely ask me the token value, so directly you can provide the token value from here itself.
Sunny Savita: So if you are facing any error while you are reading or writing anything from the hugging phase, you can directly log in using this particular method also.
Sunny Savita: So, till here, everything is fine, everything is clear, tell me. This Hugging Face API part is clear. If it is clear, I can proceed with the next concept. That's going to be a dataset library, okay?
Sunny Savita: how to create a folder or a house, it is not very difficult, okay? If you will, explore a little bit from your end also now, you will get that.
Sunny Savita: See, just do the right click, and here is a folder create option. Got it? Now, create a folder, write any name over here, upload your file. Got it?
Sunny Savita: What is a notebook login? Notebook login, basically, you can log in via IPvind main notebook to the Hugging Face directly, right? As of now, we have set the environment variable to make a connection between the notebook and the hugging phase. Let's say if that part is not working, what you can do, you can directly log in from the notebook itself.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So this is one more option, which you will get inside the Hugging Face Hub, Hugging Face API. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, I hope this thing is clear. Let's do one thing. Let's understand about the dataset library, and let's understand about the different, different kind of dataset. Even though I will discuss that data set in the upcoming session also, once I will specifically teach you the different, different kind of fine-tuning, like instruction fine-tuning, RLHF fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: In the instruction fine-tuning also, we have a different, different type of format.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so different, different university, different, different companies has created a different, different kind of format for the instruction fine-tuning. So, we'll discuss 2 to 3 type of fine… we'll discuss 2 to 3 type of work, or two to three type of format for the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's do one thing, guys. Let's install this dataset library, and this file system specification library, okay? So, this two libraries will be required if you wanted to make a connection between the Hugging Face Data Hub
Sunny Savita: and the notebook. Sorry, if I wanted to access any sort of a data from the Hugging Face app, so you will have to be installed this particular library, okay? So let me install it, guys, and please do it if you're not… if you are doing along with me. Otherwise, just observe the process, okay?
Sunny Savita: So is this clear? Why do you install this particular library? Just let me know in the chat if this part is clear.
Sunny Savita: what token we need to be provide. If you're reading anything, Rahul, from the hugging phase, then provide the read token, okay? If you're writing anything over the hugging phase, then provide the right token. As simple as that. Understood, Rahul? Getting my point? If you're downloading anything from the hugging phase, provide the right token.
Sunny Savita: It is just a read and write permission.
Sunny Savita: Very simple, Rahul. Both is simple. Just think by yourself, okay? Once you will do some practice now, from your end, you will get there.
Sunny Savita: Great. Now, what I'm doing, guys, so over here, you can see I have installed this particular library. I'm going to be import some sort of a data, right? So, whenever we're talking about the training process of the LLM model, let's say there is a company.
Sunny Savita: The company name is, DeepSeek. Can anyone tell me this DeepSeek belong to which, which, country?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about a deep sea, guys, so this deep-seek actually is belong to the China.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now let's say, there is one more company, Servoam.
Sunny Savita: So, this survey, it belongs to the India, okay? Now, we have different, more company, let's say, Mistray. Can anyone tell me to which country it belongs?
Sunny Savita: So, Mistral, actually, is belong to the friends, okay? Now, let's say we're talking about the OpenAI. So, OpenAI,
Sunny Savita: It belonged to what? It belonged to the,
Sunny Savita: USA, okay? So, different, different companies, actually, different, different companies are belong to the different, different countries, right? Now, guys, let's say if any company wants you to train their LLM, right? Let's say, Mistral.ai wanted to train their own LLM.
Sunny Savita: So, how they will train it. So, there is three stages of that. I already discussed that. So, first is called the pre-training. The second is called what? Instruction tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And the third stage is called what?
Sunny Savita: Third stage is called the preference tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Preference tuning. Now, guys, if we're talking about the instruction tuning, so this is also called the supervised Fine Tuning, SFT.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? It's called the supervised fine-tuning. So, how the data looks like while we are doing pre-training? Okay, means, already so many built-in datasets are there over the hugging phase. So, we are going to be expert couple of data sets, okay? So, I'm showing you some of the examples via this dataset library.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, over the Hugging Face Hub, basically, you will get so many inbuilt data sets related to each and every stages of the fine-tuning. So, there is two types of data set, okay?
Sunny Savita: The first is called the enable dataset. So, what is the meaning of the inbilled dataset? Inbuilt dataset, which is already there, which is already there.
Sunny Savita: Over the hugging phase.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Which is already there over the hugging Face.
Sunny Savita: Which is uploaded by the… which is… Uploaded by?
Sunny Savita: Different.
Sunny Savita: companies, right? Which is uploaded by different companies, different universities, Right? Universities.
Sunny Savita: universities, which is uploaded by the community, right? Open source community.
Sunny Savita: open source.
Sunny Savita: community, okay? Now, the second kind of data set, it is called the custom dataset. So, what is the meaning of the custom dataset? Custom data set means your data set.
Sunny Savita: Right? Your dataset. Your dataset means your personal data set.
Sunny Savita: Okay, your personal data set.
Sunny Savita: your enterprise data set, right? Your enterprise data set. So this is your custom dataset. Now, guys, as of now, I'm showing you the example with the inbuilt dataset, which is already available over the Hugging Face.
Sunny Savita: Right? Which is already available over the hugging phase. Then later on, I will show you the fine-tuning. Tomorrow, in the tomorrow session, I will show you the fine-tuning. So I will show you with this custom data set. Okay? As of now, whatever data set we are going to be import from the hugging phase, those are the inbuilt data set.
Sunny Savita: which is uploaded by the different, different companies and the universities. Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Even I can create my custom dataset, and I can upload over the Hugging Face app, so anyone can utilize that, right? So what I can do, I can create…
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: I can create my custom data.
Sunny Savita: custom data into Hugging Face compatible format.
Sunny Savita: compatible format, and I can… Upload it over there.
Sunny Savita: I can upload it over there, so anyone can use it.
Sunny Savita: So, anyone… can use it.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Is it getting to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear? So, dataset is what? Dataset is a library.
Sunny Savita: Dataset is what? Dataset is a library inside the Hugging Face ecosystem.
Sunny Savita: Understood?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, yes or no? Is this part is getting killer to all of you? Tell me. Whatever critical point I have written over here, is this clear?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, whatever… what is a compatible format? We can have a C… we can have a CSV format, JSON format, Parquet format, a different, different format, basically, right? So, what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to be read couple of data sets from the Hugging Face.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, there is one very famous data set over the hugging phase with respect to the pre-training. So, if you wanted to train your model from scratch.
Sunny Savita: Right? Just for the learning purpose. So, you can utilize this particular dataset, Wikitext dataset. This is the data from the Wikipedia. Okay? So, this is the dataset repo name.
Sunny Savita: This is the dataset variant. Different, different variants are there related to the data. Okay, so here I written all the variants name with respect to this particular report. We have some more data set, I'll show you that. Okay, and here is split train.
Sunny Savita: So I'm just seeing the training part, training part of the data, okay? So, there is a training, testing, validation, three separate part of the data. I'm just looking into the training side of the data, okay? So once I will import it, guys, this load data set.
Sunny Savita: And once I'll, call this method loadDataset, okay? So, I'll get the dataset inside the… I will get dataset where inside this particular variable. Got it? Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll print the dataset. Now, over here, guys, you can see how many rows are there.
Sunny Savita: Can anyone tell me how many rows are there, and how many columns are there inside the dataset? Tell me, guys, fast.
Sunny Savita: Tell me how many rows and how many columns are there inside the dataset.
Sunny Savita: So, we have one column, that is a text column, right? And how many rows are there? 36,000 rows are there. So, if you wanted to visualize that row, can you visualize that? Yes, you can iterate on top of that data set, and you can visualize that particular row.
Sunny Savita: Right? So just for you, just to showcase you guys inside a notebook, so I'm iterating over the dataset, and see, here I'm just showing you the top 15 rows.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the top 15 rows. Now, over here, guys, you can see, so this is the data.
Sunny Savita: Right? With respect to each and every column. Can we see this particular data directly over the hugging phase? Yes, we can directly check it over the hugging phase. So you just require this repository name, just take this repository name, write it over the Google, okay? Once you will do it, guys, so here you will get that repository.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, this is the repository, guys, which, with that, from here only, we have imported a dataset, which you can see inside our notebook. Now, if you will look over here, so you will just get the text column.
Sunny Savita: Right? So what you will get, guys, you will just get the text column. So different, different variant of the data is there, whatever I have written over the notebook itself, and they have splitted the data into the three parts. First for the training, second for the validation, and third for the testing, okay? So here, guys, you can see the training, validation, and the testing, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, here you can see, in one of the versions, basically, they have 1 million, more than 1 million rows, more than, 20, I think 18 lakh rows, okay, in one of the versions. Just check out which version we are using. I think inside that, we have a very few rows, I think 36,000, something like that, right?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, over here, you can see, so this data, basically, we can utilize for what? We can utilize it for the pre-training.
Sunny Savita: We can utilize for what? We can utilize for the pre-training. So, if we wanted to perform the pre-training of our model, so we can utilize this dataset, where we just have a text column. Now, here, we'll have to perform the unsupervised pre-training.
Sunny Savita: Unsupervised pre-tending. Don't worry, I will show you how to create this type of custom data in tomorrow's session, I'll show you that. Got it, guys? Now, here, guys, what I'm doing, see, this is my first dataset.
Sunny Savita: So, how many columns we have? Sorry, how many rows we have, this much of rows, and we are getting a text column. This is my data representation. Now, let me show you some other data, okay? So, let me show you the data on that, the GPT-2 have been trained.
Sunny Savita: Let me show you the data on that GPT-2 have been drained, okay? So, I have that particular data also. Let me show you that, particular data. I capped it over here. So, this is the data, guys.
Sunny Savita: So, the data name is what? Open WebText. So, on top of this particular data, the GPT model, GPT-2 model have been trained. GPT-2 model, they have released in 2019, or in 2000, basically, 20 itself. So, let's see.
Sunny Savita: The size of this particular data is very huge. If you will look into the size of this particular data.
Sunny Savita: So the size of this particular data, actually, it's going to be very, very huge. Here you can see 8 million, more than 8.13 million documents are there, right? And the total token size is going to be 40 billion tokens, more than 40 billion.
Sunny Savita: And we're talking about the size on disk, so it is around 38 GB.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Is it getting killer to all of you? So, we're talking about this particular data, which is being used for training the GPT. It is… I'm talking about the pre-training part.
Sunny Savita: Right? Pre-training part. So because of that… so I'm talking about the pre-training part. So, for that, this particular data set have been used. So, let me load this particular data. Now, I can direct… I cannot directly load this data set, okay? It is very used. So what I'm doing, guys, I'm just, mentioning one parameter is streaming is equal to true.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so here I have written the description about this is streaming is equal to true. So, what is the meaning of that? So, if we are going to be mentioned this, is streaming is equal to true, the dataset is not downloaded in a full manner. So, dataset is streamed sample by sample on the fly.
Sunny Savita: Okay? It is useful for the used data, which cannot fit into the memory, like C4, the pile data, open text data, open web text data. So this entire data, actually, it is an open source, and it is being used for what? For the pre-training purpose. So let me show you this particular data, how it looks like.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside this particular data, you can see we have 18 shared files, shared files. So, inside these 18 shared files.
Sunny Savita: this data set have been divided, okay? Now, let me show you the couple of rows, how this dataset look like. So, if I'm going to run it, guys, you will get the data, okay? You will get what? You will get the… you will get the glimpse of the data. Top 15 rows you will get with respect to the data.
Sunny Savita: Making sense. Now, here you can see the content also. So, if I'm going to be write text, and then I'm just seeing the first 500 characters with respect to the first row. Now, guys, see, it is showing me that, okay? Even you can call this a take method also, on top of this data.
Sunny Savita: So you will get the top 5 rows of that. So likewise, guys, we can just look into the couple of starting rows of the data, just by writing this logic. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: tell me, is the pre-training… what all type of pre-training data we have over the hugging phase, right? And how to load the data using this load dataset library, is it clear?
Sunny Savita: So, if you wanted to perform any pre-training on your model, if you wanted to utilize for your practice, or if you are going to be trained any open source model, you can utilize this particular data for the training purpose. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: So, tell me, guys, are we going to perform the pre-training inside… are we going to perform the pre-training inside our fine-tuning?
Sunny Savita: No, we are not going to be perform the pre-training. Why we are not going to be perform the pre-training? Because pre-training actually takes a lot of resources.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Pre-training, basically, it takes lots of resources, so that's why we are not going to be perform that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, directly will perform via what? Instruction fine-tuning. Got it? Now, let me show you some data, okay, one of the data from the instruction fine-tuning, now how the data looks like. I think in the previous classes, many of you, you were asking to me, right? So, guys, here I'm calling this load dataset, and there I'm mentioning this particular repository name, tart…
Sunny Savita: TATSU, Tatsu Lab, Alpaca, okay? And here, what I'm doing, I'm mentioning this is split. I just wanted to see the trained part of the data, right? So, if I'm going to be running, guys, so here you will find out the data set. Now, if I'm running it, guys, if I'm showing you this particular data set, now tell me how many columns we have over here.
Sunny Savita: how many columns we have over here? Can anyone tell me? So, we have 4 columns, instruction, input, and output. So, we are going to be perform our fine-tuning, if we are going to be perform our instruction fine-tuning, so we'll have to be… create our data into this particular format.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So we should have this instruction, we should have input and output.
Sunny Savita: Understood? So, whatever companies have trained their model at this particular stage, in the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So they cap that data into this particular format, instruction, input, and output. We have a different, different format, okay, according to the companies. So OpenAI has created a different format, thereby they have a system message, human message, AI message, something like that.
Sunny Savita: Now, this alpaca format, it is very famous for the instruction fine-tuning, so there you have an instruction, then input, and then output. And this text, basically, it is combining all these three columns, okay? And this text only finally going into the training. So that part, I will explain in the next class, right?
Sunny Savita: So let's say if I wanted to visualize top 15 row, so here you can see this is the top 15 row I'm visualizing of the data, I'm printing of the data, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, if you wanted to check this particular data over the hugging Face, what it will do, guys, we'll just take this particular ID,
Sunny Savita: Okay, repo ID, and just paste it over the Google. So once you will do it, guys, you will get that particular data over the Hugging Face itself.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, see, this is the data. So just,
Sunny Savita: check out over here. This is the data… this is the, like, data viewer. So you can see instruction, input, and output, and this is the combine of both instruction, input, and output, and this particular text only finally goes to the model.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So this entire thing, I will teach you, and I… I hope, as of now, you understood how the data looks like for the instruction fine-tuning. So this part is clear to all of you, tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: How to load the different, different type of data from the hugging phase.
Sunny Savita: Tell me?
Sunny Savita: Even I've given you the code, if you're not able to focus over the screen, so what you can do, you can open that code side by side, and you can look over there. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Yes, this is a supervised fine-tuning, you are right. So this is the example of the instruction fine-tuning dataset, and this is the example of the supervised fine-tuning dataset.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So I hope, guys, this is clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is a text? Text is nothing, it is a combination of all these three columns. As of now, maybe you will not understand, you will understand while once I will show you the fine-tuning, right? Now, guys, I have shown you one more type of training. So, what is that training? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about that particular training, what is that training? Just tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: What is this training?
Sunny Savita: So, this training is nothing, it is a preference tuning. So, would you like to see how the data looks like for the preference tuning?
Sunny Savita: So, here I capped you one example for the preference tuning as well. So, if you are going to be perform the preference tuning, so let me show you how the data will look like.
Sunny Savita: So, Anthropic has released one preference tuning-related data. The data name is the HHRLHF, okay? So, I'm just going to be load this particular data from the Hugging Face. Let me load it, guys. For you, it might take some time. I already executed it, so that's why it is taking, like, less time inside my system.
Sunny Savita: So, yeah, I have loaded the dataset, so here is my data. Now, let me show you. So, can anyone tell me how many columns we have inside the dataset?
Sunny Savita: tell me how many columns we have inside the dataset. So, if you will look into the column, guys, so we have two columns.
Sunny Savita: Okay? The one column is a chosen, and the second column is a rejected.
Sunny Savita: So only two columns we have. So, if you wanted to check this data set over the hugging phase, you can simply copy this ID.
Sunny Savita: and paste it over the Google, and just open this particular repository, dataset repository, and then check out over here. Even you can check the files and all, so here, basically, you will get the file. So the dataset, basically, is available under this folder. You can just… you can then explore, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, here is just… here is just a glimpse of the data. So, choose and reject. So, selected or rejected. So, which, basically, input is select… which, input is selected by the human, and which is rejected by the human.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Is this concept clear?
Sunny Savita: If it is clear, tell me, guys, if you wanted to visualize the data, okay, inside the notebook, you can simply run out this particular code, so you will get the top 15 sample. So we are iterating over the data set 15 times, and you are getting top 15 sample out of the data, okay, just to visualize the data.
Sunny Savita: So if this part is clear, please let me know, right?
Sunny Savita: Please answer the question, how get to know purpose of the dataset? Like, Aristar will understand, that, will do the fine-tuning amid JDKO.
Sunny Savita: Here I have returned, okay?
Sunny Savita: what I have written, remaining concept of the hugging phase. So, as of now, we are understanding the hugging phase, right? What all things we can do using the hugging phase. Got it, Amit? After that, what we will do, once we'll implement the full-fledged pipeline.
Sunny Savita: instruction fine-tune pipeline, or RLHF pipeline, right? At that time, you will get to know, okay, how to utilize this dataset.
Sunny Savita: Understood now, Amity, right? So, we are going step by step.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Great. Now, I hope, guys, you understood this thing, how to load the dataset from the hugging phase.
Sunny Savita: Now, see, if you are loading a data from the Hugging Face, you can… what you can do, guys, you can get the several metadata from there, you can, basically understand about that, data, you can do several… several fine-tuning also, okay? Because always the data will not be clean.
Sunny Savita: Always the data will not be clean, right? If you have a custom data, in that case, definitely you will have to do some fine-tuning and all. Getting my point. So, see, I'm showing you with one more data. Let's say I'm going to be import this particular data, this IMDB data, okay? So what I did, guys, I imported this IMDB data, this data set. Now, let me show you this data set.
Sunny Savita: So once I'll print it, guys, now here you can see we have test, trained, test, and the unsupervised data, right? Text and label. So, just focus on this feature, text feature and the label feature.
Sunny Savita: So this data, basically, it is related to the text classification. I hope you know about the text classification, correct? So this data, actually, it is related to the text classification. So if you wanted to just take the train data, you can simply write data set train, and you will get the train data. So we have two columns over there. One is a text column, and the second is a label column, okay?
Sunny Savita: Let's see if I wanted to check the first row of the train data set. Now, see, this is the first row of the train data set.
Sunny Savita: Now, let me copy it over here, let me keep it where I can keep it, I can keep it inside this text. Now, see. So, this is the review.
Sunny Savita: This is the IMDB review, and here you can see the label. So, 0 means negative review, and 1 means was… 1 means the positive review. Getting my point, guys? So, you can, basically get the data, okay? Now, you can get… you can call the different, different parameter, okay? You can call the different, different feature.
Sunny Savita: Right? On top of this particular object, right?
Sunny Savita: So, on top of this particular function, you can call the different, different, method, right? Or parameter, you can say the parameter, this is the right term for this one, according to the Python. So I can get the feature, I can get the column name, I can get the label, I can get the number of row, number of columns, shape.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, once I'm going to be running, guys, so here you will get the different, different detail related to the data. So you can get this particular detail related to each and every data. Whatever data you are going to be import from the hugging phase, you can do that. Now, can anyone tell me this is the inbuilt data, or this is the custom data, which I have imported from the hugging phase? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: how to come know? But just by seeing the format, you can decide that, Sandeep, okay? So, within one or two more classes, once I will come to the actual instruction, fine-tuning and the preference tuning, you will get that.
Sunny Savita: As of now, we are just exploring the hugging phase, right? So this is the inbuilt data set, guys, which we are going to be import from the hugging phase. Got it? Now, what I'm doing, guys, see, here I can call a shuffle, different, different methods I can call according to my requirement.
Sunny Savita: So I'm just showing you very layman pre-processing of the data, right? But according to the requirement, we can do even the heavy processing of the data. Getting my point? Because over the Hugging Face data set, if we are going to import the inbuilt data set.
Sunny Savita: So there, the data will be already clean, okay? Their data will be already clean most of the time.
Sunny Savita: But if you are going to be… use your custom data now, in that case, maybe some sort of… some level of preprocessing will be required before passing the data to the model. Got it? So I can do the shuffle, guys. Shuffle, basically, what it will do, it will shuffle the entire data. Shuffle means
Sunny Savita: it will, again, reshuffle the data, okay? Like, we are shuffling the cards, right, when we are playing any game, the card game, right? In the same way.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, guys, you can see what we are doing. We are going to be, shuffle the data, okay? And then, see what we can do, just for the training, we can take the subset of the data. We can call the range method, okay, under the select… see, we can call the select method, under that, we can pass the range, and we can take the subset of the data also.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, let's say in total, we have 25,000 rows. Now, I don't want to be use all the 25,000 of row. I just wanted to use, like, top 5000 row, or random 5000 row.
Sunny Savita: Right? So for that, what I can do, I can simply call this 5000, okay, inside the select method, and I can take the subset of the data. So on top of the subset of the data, I can train my model, okay, just for the learning purpose.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Now, let's say if I wanted to filter the data. So, yes, filtration is also possible. Let's say here is my train data. Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm writing dataset train.filter, and I'm checking the length of the text column. If the length of the text column is less than 100, okay, so I'm just taking those particular reviews.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? So here you can see, so I'm just getting short reviews. Short reviews. So, there is 9 rows, which is having less than 100 character.
Sunny Savita: Which is having, like, say, 100 characters. So this is a short review. So, likewise, what we can do, we can filter out the data. We can perform the pre-processing of the data.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Right? So let's say if I wanted to take the positive review only. So what I can do, guys, tell me. So I can simply take the length of the review, which is having less than 200, or 100, or whatever, like, number I wanted to write, and here I can write the label is equal to 1. So here, what I'll get, guys, I will get the positive review.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So if you wanted to check the positive review, which is having a, like, length less than 200, so you will get the 60 number of rows.
Sunny Savita: So, likewise, guys, what I can do, I can filter out the data, I can perform some sort of a pre-processing, and even you can do that. You can download any sort of a data from the Hugging Face, and you can perform that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, here I've shown you one more way of doing that. I created one method, addWordCount. So how many words we have inside the particular sentence, inside the particular review? I can simply count that. So my example will come over here, my review will come over here, I'm just going to be split that review, okay?
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, I'm checking the length of that, right? And then I'm going to be written that length. So, if I'm going to be mapped this particular, function with a dataset, I can simply do it, dataset.map, this is my method. Now, what I'll do, guys, if I'm going to be run… if I'm going to be checking the dataset na.
Sunny Savita: If I'm going to be checked with the dataset. So, there you will get one more column.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So there, what you will get, guys, you will get one more column. Let me show you, see? You will get text, label, and word count. So you will get the word count where inside each and every text. Okay? How many words we have inside each and every review?
Sunny Savita: Okay, inside each and every row, you will get that particular count over here. So, likewise, you can do the pre-processing. I hope everyone is able to understand. Now, let me show you the word count with respect to the first review. So, see, in the first row, inside the first review, we have two added words. So, likewise, guys, what you can do, you can perform the word count.
Sunny Savita: So is this preprocessing part is clear to all of you, tell me yes or no. If everyone is able to understand this, sweet and simple preprocessing, I think we are good to go.
Sunny Savita: So, you can basically perform this preprocessing, any level of preprocessing, by your end. As of now, I've shown you with couple of, example, okay, with couple of code offline. But in a real time, this
Sunny Savita: Deprocessing could be in a little more depth, according to the requirement. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, I hope this entire thing is clear. I think this, huge data set is also clear. Now, guys, one more thing I need to tell you. Custom data set. So, if you have any custom dataset, let's say this is my custom data set, okay, or this custom dataset. Now, how to put this dataset into the Hugging Face format, and how to keep it over the Hugging Face? Now, we'll understand this particular part.
Sunny Savita: So, can we go for the break, and after that we can understand that, and the other concept of the hugging Face? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: So, how the session is going on? Are you liking the session, guys? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: I think we are going in a very slower pace, and everyone is able to understand that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I will complete the custom data part so big. Okay, let's take a break.
Sunny Savita: After that, I'll complete. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, can you please push the code so far? I already given you the code. If you will go and check out in the GitHub now, so that code is already available over here, inside this particular repository. Just download that, upload it over the Google Colab, or let me do one more thing, let me share this file link directly, so that you can go through with it, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, just a second, I'm sharing with the view access, right?
Sunny Savita: This basic Hugging Face concept is important so that we can easily do the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: You can ask me in a doubt session, Abhishek, whatever doubt you have. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Yes, it's a pre-processor, correct.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine guys, so let's take a break, and whatever pre-processing and all is required, right, with respect to the fine-tuning, so that we'll learn into the next class, because there, I will take one custom dataset, and on top of that, we'll perform some pre-processing, and then we are going to be utilizing it for the fine-tuning. Okay? Great.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine. Putting a timer. Thank you, guys.
Sunny Savita: So, should I put it for the 20 minute? Where is the 20 minute? This one?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, I'll see you after 20 minutes. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, can we start the class? If, everyone is there, please let me know in the chat.
Sunny Savita: Yes? Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: If there is enabled, or how to reprocess it? Yeah, even unlabeled data also, we can preprocess, Navi.
Sunny Savita: So let's say if you have a…
Sunny Savita: If you have a data for the P-training. So, if the rows is empty, if there are so many punctuations and all, right? If you have to, like, convert your… all the tokens into the lower cases. So, yeah, you can do that. Very easy.
Sunny Savita: So, pre-processing is always, there is no certain, basically predefined rule for the preprocessing. It always, like,
Sunny Savita: You will always do according to the requirement.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: Basic preprocessing, everyone can do, right? With all the data. But again.
Sunny Savita: If you are doing any sort of a pre-processing, then…
Sunny Savita: You will do according to that requirement, got it? Now, I hope you are able to understand with the inbuilt data set. Now, let's say we have a custom data set.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, how to convert that custom dataset into the, Hugging Face format?
Sunny Savita: And how to upload the data over the hugging phase, so we'll understand that part now.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, just see over here, I created some, data, dummy data over here. Can you see this particular data? Is it visible to all of you? Please let me know.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, here you can see we have a data. Now, this particular data, basically, it might come from where? From the, basically from the, CSV file also, right? So, have you read, this type of data, one text column, or any kind of column in the label column from the CSV data?
Sunny Savita: As of now, I just created this data over here itself, okay, inside the dictionary only. I just kept a couple of points, but this data can come from anywhere, from the JSON file, from the CSV file, okay, from the TSV file, from any sort of a file.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be, run this particular cell, and then I'm converting this data into the data frame. So, can you see this data?
Sunny Savita: Is the data frame available to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: I hope the data frame is available to all of you, okay? Now, let's say if I have to convert this particular data into the Hugging Face format, how you will do that? So, for that, you just need to call this particular method.
Sunny Savita: dataset, okay, once you will call this dataset, right? We have already defined the dataset, right? After that, guys, what you will do, see, dataset, this is the dataset variable, this one.
Sunny Savita: From dataset, we are going to be import the dataset.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So this is what is my dataset class, and here is my another import method, which is a Pandas one. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'm doing, guys, here, This is my dataset.
Sunny Savita: And using this particular module, I'm calling this method from data from pandas.
Sunny Savita: And I'm passing this data frame. Okay, so once I'll do that, guys, now here, see, what I'm getting, guys, I'm getting this dataset.
Sunny Savita: Now, do we have text column? Yes, we have a text column. Do we have label column? Yes, we have a label column. And can you see the number of rows? Yes, we have 6 number of rows. If you will look into the data, so we have 6 number of rows, okay?
Sunny Savita: I hope this thing is clear. So, is it clear, guys, if you have any data frame, if you're going to be load any sort of a data into the data frame, then how to convert into the Hugging Face format?
Sunny Savita: If you will look into the previous data, let me show you that IMDB data also. So, this is the IMDB data set, guys.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Now, when we have loaded this IMDB dataset.
Sunny Savita: when we have loaded this IMDB dataset, now tell me, guys, do we have the text and the label over here? And we were having 25,000 rows. So this is the inbuilt data set. Now, here, guys, I have created my own dataset from the data frame. So I can get any data inside a data frame, and then what I can do, I can convert into the Hugging Face format.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, what I have to do, I have to upload this data over the hugging Face, okay? So, how I can upload this data over the hugging Face? Now, tell me, guys, which token will be required. Do we require the read token or the write token? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Do we require the write token or the read token? So, if I wanted to keep this data over the hugging phase, okay, inside the hugging… okay, now tell me, if we are going to be keeping this data over the hugging phase, so we'll be keeping inside the model repository or inside the data repository?
Sunny Savita: So we are going to be keep it inside VAB.
Sunny Savita: Inside the data repository, okay? So, what I'm doing, first of all, see, I'm setting write token as an environment variable.
Sunny Savita: I'm setting right tokenizer environment variable, or else what I can do, guys, even I can log in.
Sunny Savita: Right? Even I can log in. So, either I can set it as an environment variable, if it is giving you any sort of error, you can directly log into the notebook.
Sunny Savita: Now, once you will log in, right, you can check. You can check your identity.
Sunny Savita: who you are, right? Who am I? So here it will give you the detail, that you are a user, this is the ID, this is the name of your username, your full name is Sunny Savita, so it will provide you the complete profile, basically. Okay? So here you can see the complete profile, your profile.
Sunny Savita: So, you can directly take this profile and check it over here. Just keep it inside the text, now see.
Sunny Savita: So, access token is a write token.
Sunny Savita: Okay, your role as of now is the right one. You are going to be right anything over the hugging phase, okay? So you can check out the complete detail like this, basically. Now, what I'm doing, I'm pushing my data to my repository. So what I… what I can do, guys, I can create the repository, so I can… I'm going to be create a repository. My custom data
Sunny Savita: live bootcamp, okay? So this is the repository, basically, which I created. Now, what I'm doing, I'm just going to be push this particular data set to the Hugging Face repository.
Sunny Savita: So, see, I'm able to push this particular dataset over the Hugging Face repository. Now, how I can check it out that? So, I will just go with my Hugging Face, okay? And after that, guys, what I'll do, I'll go with my profile icon. Now, over here, I will open my profile.
Sunny Savita: Now, I will go inside the dataset. So, here you can see my custom data live bootcamp. So, this is the repository, and under this particular repository, can you see this data, guys? Is it visible to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Can you see this particular data inside the repository? So, how to create your… how to push your own custom data over the hugging phase? I hope this part is clear. Now, guys, what you can do, you can even go and check inside the file section, file and version.
Sunny Savita: So, inside the file, guys, you will get the folder, the folder name is data folder. Now, by default, in which format it has created a data, it has, like, it has kept the data over the hugging Face. Can anyone tell me? By default, which format it is using?
Sunny Savita: So, by default, it is using the parkit format.
Sunny Savita: Okay? By default, it is using the Parquet format. So, we have a different, different file format.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we're talking about the different, different file format, where we can keep the data. So generally, we use a CSV format. We use the XLX format, okay? Xlsx, right?
Sunny Savita: We use a TSV format, tab-sub submitted format. We use a Parquet format, okay?
Sunny Savita: Right? We use the RC format, right? Parquet format, RC format, ORC format, right? We have a JSON format. So, we have a different, different format. Actually, this Parc… sorry, actually, this RC, parquet, ORC format, so this is related to the big data. So, whenever we have a huge data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, whenever we have a big data, right? So we'll always keep inside this particular format, and this is the binary format of the data.
Sunny Savita: Binary format of the data.
Sunny Savita: So, as of now, it is compressing by default into the Parquet format, but it is always not required until you don't have the big data. So, you can keep inside the CSV, Excel, TSV, JSON, in any sort of a format, you can keep the data, and you can directly push it over the Hugging Face. Very, very simple.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Yes? Okay. Now, guys, what…
Sunny Savita: We can do… so we are able to push the data. Now, let's, create one more, data. See, this is one more data, guys. Okay, so again, I can show you how this data look like. Will you be able to push this data? Can I leave to you only?
Sunny Savita: Can I leave to you only? Will you be able to push this particular data over the hugging phase? So I'm not going to be push it. You can push this particular data over the hugging phase, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great, guys. Now, let's do one thing, let's understand about the tokenization. So, can we start with the next topic, which is going to be a tokenization?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, let's start with the tokenization. So here, what we are going to be doing, we are going to be convert our data into the tokens, right? So, when I was ex…
Sunny Savita: Explaining the transformer.
Sunny Savita: So, as of now, sorry, at that time, guys, when I was explaining the transformer, so to this transformer, how we were passing the data, can anyone tell me? So, we are passing the data in a parallel fashion.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So while we were doing the training, guys, right? So the time of the training.
Sunny Savita: At the time of the training.
Sunny Savita: We are passing the data into the parallel fashion.
Sunny Savita: So, what all staff basically was happening over there? So, first, this data basically was converting into that tokens.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, after that, guys, the data was converting into the word embedding.
Sunny Savita: Right? Then this data is being passed to the positional encoding.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: And then, guys, this data was going to the self-attention.
Sunny Savita: Self-attention.
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, the data was going through the, the data, basically, it was going through the feed-forward neural network. So this was what? This was the entire process of the transformer, when it was processing the data.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, inside this particular process, can you see the tokenization of the data?
Sunny Savita: Can you see the tokenization of the data? Is it visible to all of you? So guys, here, we are not doing a simple tokenization, okay? So this tokenization is also happening using some algorithm.
Sunny Savita: So, companies, the different, different companies, actually, it has created a various kind of algorithm. The 2-2 algorithm, actually, it's a very famous one. The first algorithm is a BPE algorithm.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and the second algorithm is called the word peace algorithm. WordPiece algorithm.
Sunny Savita: Okay? P-I-E-C-E. WordPiece algorithm. So, I will show you how to train your own custom tokenizer using this BPE, or WordPress algorithm. So, this is two algorithms. Now, what is a BP algorithm? Byte pair encoding.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Byte, pair, and coding.
Sunny Savita: So, for the tokenization also, guys, they are going to be using the specific algorithm. So, one is a BP algorithm, and the second is a word piece algorithm, okay? Now, guys, what I can do, I can show you something. So, here, if we're talking about the I Love AI, let's say if I'm going to be convert this data, this particular sentence, into the token.
Sunny Savita: So, let me keep it over the blackboard.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, here you can see the sentence, I love AI. So, I'm going to be… convert this data into the token, so I is a token.
Sunny Savita: Love is a token, and AI is a token. So I converted this data into the token. But guys, this data will not be directly passed, will be like this. So, from this token, guys, we are going to be convert the token I… we are going to be convert this data into the token IDs, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, whenever, guys, we are talking about a token, so actually, we are not passing a token. So, we are passing what? We are passing a token IDs, actually.
Sunny Savita: token IDs.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, is this thing getting clear to all of you? So, whenever we have a sentence, if we are going to be… convert this particular data into the tokens, so we are not going to be passed this token directly, because my system is not able to process this particular num… this particular,
Sunny Savita: character. System can only process the number, okay? So what we are doing, we are going to be passed these particular numbers, the token IDs. And how we are going to be converting this data, this sentence, into the token. So we have two algorithms, two methods for that.
Sunny Savita: One is a BPE algorithm.
Sunny Savita: And second, basically, it's a word piece algorithm.
Sunny Savita: WordPiece algorithm. Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Is this, is this entire, system… is this entire process is clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: If you are able to follow to me till here, I think we are good to go. Now let me show you the practical, basically. So, guys, every model has trained their own tokenizer also. So, if we're talking about the model like BERT, so they have trained their own tokenizer using the BERT piece algorithm, GPT, they have used the BPE,
Sunny Savita: Okay, Lama have used the sentence piece. So, we have another kind of algorithm, let me write over here. I can write over the blackboard itself. So, the sentence piece is one of the updated version over the word piece, okay?
Sunny Savita: Sentence piece is one of the updated version over the word piece. So, different, different companies, different, different models are using a different, different token, different algorithm to convert that data into the tokens. So, word piece, BPE, sentence piece, T5 is using the sentence piece, Quan is using the customer token…
Sunny Savita: tokenizer, their own tokenizer, mistily using the sentence piece, okay? And even, guys, what you can do, you can create your own custom tokenizer also. So let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: You can create Yor… own… Custom.
Sunny Savita: Tokenization. Tokenization.
Sunny Savita: method.
Sunny Savita: Is it making sense to all of you? I hope this thing is clear. It is very, very easy, okay? Now, guys, as of now, we are not going to be deep dive into the mathematics of this particular algorithm, because it is not required to us, unnecessary, it will take our time.
Sunny Savita: If you are going to be training any LLM from scratch, at that time, it would be required. But yeah, I will give you the glimpse that how you can train your own tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: I will… I have kept that particular code inside the file itself. Even you can open that, and you can check it out, that, okay? Now, what I'm doing, guys, so here, I'm going to be, install the transformer library.
Sunny Savita: So, let me install the transformer library. Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to be import this auto-tokenizer. So, whatever model name I will provide, so according to that model name, the tokenizer is going to be import.
Sunny Savita: Okay? The tokenizer is going to be what? The tokenizer is going to be import. So I will call this method auto tokenizer.FormPetrain, and I will pass the model name. So BERT-based… BERT model tokenizer will be imported.
Sunny Savita: So let me import the tokenizer, and let me show you how we can convert the data into the tokens.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Is there a paper of the BPE? Yes, you can check it out, that paper of the BPE is there, right?
Sunny Savita: Great. So, guys, here you can see we are able to import this auto-tokenizer. Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to take this auto-tokenizer.form, pre-trained, and I'm passing the model name. So, automatically, the tokenizer will be imported, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, the tokenizer is there. Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll pass this particular sentence, okay? And I'll pass this particular sentence to this particular method, to this particular,
Sunny Savita: class, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, guys, if I'll check the output, so can you see the output? Is it visible to all of you? So, you will get the input IDs, that is 101, 146, 1567, 1190016102, right? Token type ID,
Sunny Savita: So, it is just to segregate the different, different sentence. So, let's say we are passing a multiple sentence. So, for the first sentence, it will, pa… it will basically give the 000.
Sunny Savita: And for the second sentence, it will give the 111. Okay, it is just for the BERT-based model. In other model, you will not get that, okay? I will show you. Attention mask, basically, which token is important for the attention layer?
Sunny Savita: So, if the value is 0, so that token is not important for the attention layer, if the value is 1, so that particular token is important for the attention layer, okay? So likewise, we are going to be discriminate. So this particular value is an important one, this one. Now, guys, what I'm doing, if I'm going to be convert again this token IDs, okay, into the word.
Sunny Savita: So what I'm doing, I'm just going to be called this method, convert IDs to token, and I'm passing my input IDs. So what you will get over here, you will get the tokens, okay, which is associated to this particular input ID. So, how many input ID we have?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, how many input IDs we have, how many input IDs you are able to see. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. So CLS is 101, it is a special token inside the BERT model.
Sunny Savita: SCP separate is, again, one of the special token, it is assigned 102. Then, to the rest of the… rest of the, basically, to the rest of what? To the rest of the token, I love AI, it is able to provide 10146, 1567, and 19016, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, to every, basically, LLM model, one tokenizer will be associated. Getting my point? Tell me yes or no. Is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes, after this token ID will be generated, we can pass it to the embedding, and then we can convert into the… we can append the positional encoding also.
Sunny Savita: Okay, we can append the position encoding also on top of it. Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm showing you one more example. See, tokenizer, I'm passing two sentences, I love AI and I love ML. So, I'm passing this particular sentence, now just observe the output, what output I'm getting. So, I'm getting the…
Sunny Savita: output, basically. So, this is the first token is special token, this is the last token is special token, and over here, guys, after that, what you can see, you can see the token type ID. So, first sentence is being, like,
Sunny Savita: donate, sorry, denoted with the 0, and the another, sentence, this I love ML, is denoted with a 1, right? And this is the attention mask. Attention mask means what? So, which token is important for the attention layer? So if you are doing any sort of a padding or something.
Sunny Savita: So that particular padding is not required for the attention. So for that, it will pass the 000, and for all the attention, for whatever token is required for the attention layer, it will pass the 1111. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, guys, you are able to understand this particular thing. Now, guys, let me show you the different, different tokenizer. So, BERT is the only… from BERT only, we can, sorry, I have shown you the example using the BERT only, but this is not only one of the tokenizer. With every model, one tokenizer will be associated. I capped the different, different name over here, you can see.
Sunny Savita: So I kept the BERT, Roberta, DistillBird, GPT, Opt, Plan, T5, Diberta, XLnet, okay, then all Mini LM, Llama, Mistral, Quan, GMA, even a state-of-art model is also there. So whatever model we are using for the text generation, so those particular models also you will get over here.
Sunny Savita: This is just to showcase you that we can have, like, a different, different tokenizer related to the different, different model. So every model is having their own tokenizer. Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear?
Sunny Savita: If it is getting clear, tell me, guys, fast.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, tell me, tell me yes or no, okay? So how's this learning? Is it… is it an interesting one, or
Sunny Savita: blood vessel.
Sunny Savita: What is a cased and uncased? So, this is just a model, basically, which is trained by the company. Okay, it is able to handle the case and the uncased, right?
Sunny Savita: capital or the small, according to that particular data, that's it, right? Great.
Sunny Savita: How to know which tokenizer to use? Whatever model you are using, you will pass that repo ID only. Let's say you are using a Lama model, use the Llama tokenizer. Automatically, it will fetch that.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Automatically, it will fetch that specific tokenizer whenever you will pass the model name to this particular class.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this particular class, auto-tokenizer from pre-trained. Got it? Self-attention, I already explained Ananji. Please check out the previous classes, I already explained a very, very detail what is a self-attention. Got it? Now, guys, what we are doing, so let me explain the APCA for the concepts.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, this is all the tokenizer. You can load that, and you can check out the name. So, here you can see Alberta Tokenizer and all. You can just execute this code. I just kept this list to showcase you that we have a tokenizer. We can load the tokenizer from every sort of a model, okay? So, let's say we are using this model, Llama27BHF.
Sunny Savita: Just provide that model name to this particular class, okay? AutoTokenizer to… and to this particular method, auto-tokenizer.FormPretrain. So once you will provide this particular name over here, this particular name over here, it will automatically fetch its tokenizer. It will automatically fetch their tokenizer. Making sense to all of you? Yes or no? Great.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, let's understand the further thing, right? So here, guys, what I'm doing, so let me import one more tokenizer. See, even we can convert our Hindi data also into the token. So I found one model, Indic Bird, okay? So let me import the tokenizer from here.
Sunny Savita: from this Indic bot, so it's going to be import. Now, see, if I will provide this Hindi data, mojai AI person hai.
Sunny Savita: Even I will be able to convert into the Hindi token. See, mojai AI percent hai. Got it, guys?
Sunny Savita: Making sense or not?
Sunny Savita: So, we can even convert our Hindi data also into the tokens.
Sunny Savita: Even what we can do, guys, we can convert our Hindi data also into the tokens. I think I haven't mentioned that particular thing over here.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: inside this particular list, it is not there, right? So you can check out the different, different models. If you are training anything from scratch, if you have Hindi data, English data, any kind of data you can handle, right? Hindi data also, you can convert in the token. So this is some sort of a theoretical point, theory, basically, I have written. You can read it out, this particular theory.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, guys, what is a pipeline for creating a custom tokenizer?
Sunny Savita: So, let's say if you have a data, and if you wanted to create your own custom tokenizer, how you will do that? How you will create that. So, tell me, guys, still here, everything is fine. Did you understand how to load the tokenizer, the inbuilt tokenizer?
Sunny Savita: If you are able to understand how to load the inbuilt tokenizer, we can go ahead with this one. Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes? Okay. Great. Now, I hope, guys, you are able to understand. Now, see.
Sunny Savita: Let's say if you wanted to train your own tokenizer, how you will do that, right? So, as I told you, we have a different, different tokenizer, tokenizer algorithm, BP tokenizer, then we have, basically.
Sunny Savita: bird piece, and the sentence piece. Now, what is the main difference between that? So, the difference, basically, are, like,
Sunny Savita: So, this is developed by the different, different companies, right? So, we're talking about the BPE. So, BPE Tokenizer, let me write over here, just for your knowledge. So, the BPE Tokenizer, it is, developed by the GPT, right? It is developed by the
Sunny Savita: It is an open source one. I think it is developed by the OpenAI, I'm not sure, please check out that. But if we're talking about the bird piece, okay, bird piece, so it is developed by the Google, actually.
Sunny Savita: And if we're talking about the sentence piece.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Sentence piece tokenizer. So, again, it is developed by the Google. Getting my point. BP, I'm not sure, let me check who developed the BPE, BPE research paper, okay? So I'm just going to be check the research paper, the BPE byte pair encoding.
Sunny Savita: So, do one thing, guys, just check out with the research paper of it.
Sunny Savita: It is used inside the, OpenAI. OpenAI have used this BP tokenizer later on.
Sunny Savita: So if I was at the byte pair encoding, who developed that?
Sunny Savita: I think it is an open source research.
Sunny Savita: Okay, John Hopkins University, guys, so they have published this particular research.
Sunny Savita: So they have published this particular research.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Fuck.
Sunny Savita: Can you see my screen? Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So, they have published this particular resource.
Sunny Savita: And now, guys, I'll share this particular research paper, you can go through with it, and you can understand the crux of the BPE, what it is doing.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is the training strategy behind that? So, we're talking about the BP, guys. So, it merge most frequent character, okay, repeatedly.
Sunny Savita: Now, if we're talking about the bird piece, what it is doing, it is going to be choose… so, maximize language model likelihood. So, some, basically, likelihood technique it is using behind the scene to convert the data into the tokens.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and we're talking about the sentence piece, so it is… it is learning the subwords directly, right? So if you want the differences, I can give you those particular differences. I have one table, basically, I'll give you in some time. But first, let me…
Sunny Savita: show you how to train the custom tokenizer. So what I'll do, guys, so first I'll take the raw text, okay? And after that, I will train the BP tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: I'll save the tokenizer, I will convert that particular tokenizer into the Hugging Face format, and there I'm going to be save that particular tokenizer, so that later on also we can use that.
Sunny Savita: So, here I've written the functionality of the BPE, byte pair encoding. So, what is the simple idea behind the BPE? So, it's going to be, see, what I written over here? Frequently appearing character subvert ko malt character vocabulary, right? So what it is doing is going to be, basically, most the frequently appear character or subwords.
Sunny Savita: Right? And then it's going to be create a vocabulary. So let's say, for example, let's say we have this particular character, TR, so it's going to be create TR, then TRA, TRA, then TRA, and train, right? And then going forward, it will become train, something like that. So likewise, what it is doing is it's going to be created tokens, byte, pair, and coding.
Sunny Savita: Are you able to understand my point? Are you able to understand it, are you able to understand it or not, guys? Tell me. So this particular technique was used by the GPT to create a tokens, basically, to tokens from the data, right? So if I wanted to create a token from my own data, what I'll do.
Sunny Savita: So, here I will import the tokenizer, I will import models, trainers, and the pre-tokenizer, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, let me execute it. So, this is my corpus, guys. I just took 3 sentences in my data, so you can have as much as data, okay? You can take the data from anywhere, so this is my corpus only. On top of it only, I'm going to get trained my tokenizer, okay, on top of this data. So, here is my token… here is my corpus, guys.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'll do, just a second, what is showing connect with the runtime.
Sunny Savita: Oh, continue without GPU. Okay, my limit is, I think… Okay. User's limit is due now, guys. I think I cannot use a GPU, basically.
Sunny Savita: Fine, don't worry, I'll log in with a different ID, and then I will try to use that, right? So what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to be import this pre-tokenizer, then here is my corpus, this is my corpus, and after that, guys, what I'll do, I will use this class, tokenizer, and I'll define my BPE model, okay? I will call my BP over there, model.bpe.
Sunny Savita: So my tokenizer will be initialized. Now, after that, guys, what I'll do, I will call this pre-tokenizer.whitespace, okay, so that I will process my data.
Sunny Savita: After that, guys, what I'll do, I will call this trainer, okay, the trainer, basically, which I created.
Sunny Savita: sorry, the trainer, basically, which I imported, this one. And then, what I'll do, I will call this BPE Trainer, okay, trainer.betrainer, and I will define the vocabulary size, okay? How much vocabulary we want from this particular data. Then, guys, what I'll do, guys, I will call… I will take this tokenizer, then
Sunny Savita: train from iterator, I will pass my corpus, my data, and the trainer. Okay, there's two things, basically, I'm going to be passed over here. Now, once I will pass that, guys, after that, guys, my tokenizer will be ready. I can save that particular tokenizer. So here, guys, inside this particular space, you will get the tokenizer. CustomTokenizer.json.
Sunny Savita: You can download this tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: You can keep it inside a local system. Anywhere, basically, you wanted to keep, you can do. So this is the size of the file, 3.1KB. Let me show you what we have inside this particular file. So, these are JSON files. If you will open it, guys, let me open it, inside a VS CodeC.
Sunny Savita: This is the Toke Nicer, guys, this one.
Sunny Savita: Can you see this particular tokenizer? Is it visible to all of you? Now, here you will find out, basically, what you will find out. So, you will find out the number which is assigned to the character, or which is assigned to the board.
Sunny Savita: So this is my vocabulary, basically, which is created, and to the vocabulary, the specific word.
Sunny Savita: sorry, the specific number have been assigned. So, in a similar way, basically, this GPT and the other companies are training their tokenizer. So, tokenizer does not mean that always we are going to be… convert our data into the words. No, it is not like that. So, different, different algorithm is being used to efficiently iterate over the data, right? So, in this way, basically, this tokenization… in this way, the data tokenization have been
Sunny Savita: perform. Now, this particular data further will be passed to the
Sunny Savita: word embedding model, and word embedding model will convert into the embedding, and that embedding will be passed to the positional encoding. So, I think many of you, you were asking to me, sir, how to convert the data into the tokens, okay, how to create our own custom token. I hope now that part is clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, if I wanted to upload this particular tokenizer over the hugging phase, I can do that also. Let me show you, basically, how to do that, how to perform that. So for that, guys, what I'll do, I'll, simply, sorry.
Sunny Savita: Yeah. So here, guys, I will simply, import this one. Pre-trained tokenizer fast.
Sunny Savita: So I have imported this particular, basically class. Now here, what I'll do, guys, I will pass my file, and I will, define some, basically, a special token also. So this is for the unknown word, this is for the padding, this is for the classification, separate and mask.
Sunny Savita: So, through this particular word, the special number will be assigned. Got it? Now, after that, guys, see, I'm importing it, and then I'm going to create an object of this particular class, HF2…
Sunny Savita: organizer. Now, what I'll do, guys.
Sunny Savita: I will call this hftokenizer.save pretrain, and I will pass, I will write my name, whatever name, basically, I wanted to write. So once I will do it, guys, so my data, my tokenizer, my tokenized file, the JSON file, basically, it's going to be converted into the Hugging Face-compatible tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Now, here you can check out that. So, this is my tokenizer HF, guys, you can see. So, it is converted into the Hugging Face-compatible tokenizer, and now I can import that particular tokenizer using this auto-tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: So, what I'll do, guys, I will call this auto-tokenizer.formPretrained, right? This is already trained tokenizer. Now, guys, this is the, basically file, this is the, name of my tokenizer, okay? Now, once I will import it, so inside this particular, inside this particular variable, I will get my tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Now, here is a sentence, here is a text I am passing to my tokenizer, and then see, guys, what output I'll be getting, so here you can see the output.
Sunny Savita: Is it clear to all of you? Tell me, yes or no. How to create our own tokenizer and how to load our own tokenizer? If this part is clear to all of you, please let me know.
Sunny Savita: Tell me fast. If this part is getting clear, just tell me, so that I can proceed further. Very, very clear.
Sunny Savita: Now you are able to understand the entire process, how maybe the entire companies, the different, different companies are creating their own tokenizer. So, we're talking about, basically, this OpenAI. So, let me write over here, OpenAI token counter, okay? So this is the OpenAI token counter API token counter API.
Sunny Savita: So let's say if we are going to be passed any sort of a text to this, open counter, sorry, token counter API,
Sunny Savita: So, here, see, it is going to be convert our data into the tokens. So, which algorithm they are using in a backend? They're not going to be use a single… they are not going to be using the simple logic. They are going to be using some complicated algorithm so that they can cover the entire scenario from the data, right?
Sunny Savita: So, using that particular algorithm only, the token is being generated.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? And here, guys, what we have done, we have created our own tokenizer using the BPE algorithm. Now, many of you, you were asking the differences, what are the differences between the BPE sentence piece and all. So, for that, guys, in my notepad, I kept one table. Now, let me keep it over here, so that…
Sunny Savita: you can read those things in your free time, right? So this is the detail, guys, you can go through with this particular detail.
Sunny Savita: So, BP, basically, who has developed that, I think I've shown you, bird piece, sentence piece, right, used in training strategy, space handling, more selection, vocabulary creation, unknown words, so this is some sort of a, like, basically summary.
Sunny Savita: Related to the different, different tokenizer. I've shown you the tokenizer using the BPE, but you can train your own tokenizer using any other algorithm.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no. So, how was the session so far?
Sunny Savita: Is it a knowledgeable one? Are you able to understand every sort of a concept over here?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Okay. I'm going to be cover each and everything like this so that you can understand. Okay?
Sunny Savita: A little bit fast. Alright, Amit GC, if I will not go ahead with this particular, basically, speed now, then how I will complete all this thing?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, MHG. Thura toh, like, fast jana pada gana. Little bit fast, right?
Sunny Savita: So, please, cope up with my speed. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys, so now let's understand the model side, and after that, guys, we'll conclude this session. So I'm taking 5 minute of break until revise all this thing, I provide you the code, and then we'll start with the model side, okay? So, guys, taking 3 minute of break, quick water break, putting a timer, wait.
Sunny Savita: Please check out with my GitHub, the link is already there.
Sunny Savita: Fuck.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, can we start again? Everyone is back, everyone is there, right?
Sunny Savita: So just let me know in the chat so that we can start.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, let's do one thing. Let's, understand. Now, load the model. So, so far, what we were loading, can anyone tell me what we were loading?
Sunny Savita: which class… which class we were using, so we were using the AutoTokenizer class.
Sunny Savita: Now, can anyone tell me why we are using this AutoTokenizer class?
Sunny Savita: why, why we have… why have… why we have used this OpenTokenizer class. Please let me know in the chat, guys.
Sunny Savita: to load the tokenizer, okay? Now, we are not going to be load the tokenizer. What we are going to load, we are going to be load the actual model.
Sunny Savita: So, when I was teaching with a transformer, did I discuss one architecture?
Sunny Savita: did I given you a overview of one architecture? The architecture name was the BERT, okay? So, what I'm doing, guys, I'm writing over here, BERT architecture. So, once I'll write that, I'll get that, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, I think this is the bot architecture.
Sunny Savita: And, but, actually, it's a…
Sunny Savita: encoder part of the transformer, right? So here you can see, if I can show you the diagram, see, this is one of the blog, right?
Sunny Savita: And inside the blog, you can see, so there's a transformer architecture, GPT is a decoder site, and, bot is an encoder site, okay? So guys, I hope, this, thing was already clear, and I've given you the quick overview of that.
Sunny Savita: And I discussed this transformer in a very detail.
Sunny Savita: Okay? How this is working, what is a cross-encoding, cross-encoder, self-attention, and all, everything I discussed. Now.
Sunny Savita: One thing, guys. Okay, so let's load the different, different model, and let's see, how many heads is there, okay, how many, basically, self-attention, stack is there.
Sunny Savita: Right? And, what is the size of the embedding which is being used inside the model? Getting my point? Let's understand all those things. So I can, open the BERT research paper.
Sunny Savita: BERT research paper.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, here is the board research paper.
Sunny Savita: This one, guys. Now, what I'm doing, I'm simply downloading this research paper.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: I'm using… and I'm opening my Cloud Chat. Let me open the Cloud Chat.
Sunny Savita: So, just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, here is my Cloud chat, guys. Okay, everyone is using Claude and all, right, nowadays.
Sunny Savita: Correct? So, now to this cloud, what I'm doing, I'm giving the PDF. So, this PDF, basically, which I downloaded.
Sunny Savita: And I'm asking to Claude, can you explain me this research paper?
Sunny Savita: Can you explain me this research paper?
Sunny Savita: Okay? Provide me… Complete.
Sunny Savita: Summary of the architecture.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, I return this one, and now I am hitting enter. Let's see what Claude is giving to me.
Sunny Savita: So, Claude maybe will provide me the entire summary of the research paper. So, it is saying it is a BERT research paper, right? Which is invented by the Google in 28. So, for the pre-training, it is using the mask language modeling.
Sunny Savita: Right? And it is using next sentence prediction also. Now, here you can see model size. So, in a model size, guys, can you see what it is saying? If I'm looking into the model size, what it is saying, guys.
Sunny Savita: So, this thing is important. I will show you everything in terms of practical, right?
Sunny Savita: So what it is saying, can you read out this particular thing?
Sunny Savita: There is saying, model size, bot has 12 transformer layer. So what is the meaning of that 12 transformer layer? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Notebook LM is one of the alternatives. We can utilize that also. Okay, I'm using the Claude code, so Claude, basically, the entire ecosystem of that. Even I will show you that, okay? So, if it is sync, 12 transformer layer, so the meaning is basically 12 encoder layer.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: 12 encoder layer.
Sunny Savita: Now, 768 hidden unit. So, what is the meaning of that? 768 hidden unit.
Sunny Savita: 768 hidden unit basically means, so the size of the embedding was the… the size of the embedding, basically, it was the 768, okay? And even the size of the hidden, unit was the 768.
Sunny Savita: So, inside the board is small, there were… we were having 110 million parameter, and if we're talking about the board large, so there we have… we are having 340 million parameter. So, it is nothing, it's just a bits and biases of the model, okay? So, let's load the same model from the hugging Face, and let's see, do we have the same parameter or not over there?
Sunny Savita: So what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be load the model, okay?
Sunny Savita: So here is the class name. The class name is the Automodel, so I'm just going to be load that. Now here, what I'll do, first I'll load the tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so the tokenizer is there. Now, guys, tell me, whenever we are going to be passed the data through the model, can we pass the data directly, or we are going to be passed the data using the tokenizer? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: how, basically, we are going to pass the data. So, if we are going to be… if we wanted to pass any data into the model, right, for the inferencing purpose, if we wanted to pass any data to the model for the inferencing purpose, for the pre-training purpose, for the fine-tuning purpose, so we will always pass the data into the form of tokens.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Through the tokenizer only, we'll do that. So, what I did, guys, if I wanted to do any sort of inferencing for that, what I had done, I have used this tokenizer, right? I will pass this particular data to the model, this particular data, in the form of tokens. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now, let me do one thing. Let me, first,
Sunny Savita: convert the data into the tokens, right? So if I'm doing any sort of inferencing using this particular model, okay, using the BERT model, I will pass this particular data. Do you understand what is the meaning of the inferencing?
Sunny Savita: Inferencing means, we are passing… we already have a trained model, so we are passing… we already have a trained model, okay, to that particular model, we are passing a… we are passing a data for the prediction purpose, right? For the output purpose. So, for the testing purpose, right? So that is called the inferencing, simple.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm using this class AutoModel from pre-trained bird-based uncase. So, what it is doing, guys, so it is going to be import the
Sunny Savita: Right? So it's going to be… it's going to be like download the, basically, it's going to be download what? It's going to be download the base model of the bot.
Sunny Savita: Okay? It's going to be download the base model of the bird, base and the raw model. Base and…
Sunny Savita: raw model of the bird. Not only the, basically, bird, you can download any sort of a model, let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: not only the bird, okay? You can download.
Sunny Savita: Any model. Any model, right? Any raw model, basically. Now, over here, guys, it is downloading.
Sunny Savita: It is downloading.
Sunny Savita: A model in your memory.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, can you tell me it is downloading a model in your persistent memory, or it is downloading in your, basically volatile memory, where it is downloading?
Sunny Savita: So, it is downloaded inside the RAM, actually. Okay, it is downloading the model into your volatile memory. It's not going to be downloaded into your system memory, into your disk. For that, I will show you some other way how to do that, okay? How to download the model from the Hugging Face directly.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, guys, you can see, so we are going to be download the model in your RAM memory, okay, volatile memory.
Sunny Savita: So, let me write over here, wallet.
Sunny Savita: tile, right? Volatile memory is nothing, it is a RAM memory.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, here, I'm going to be, import this model. Now, what'll… what will happen, guys? See, the model is being loaded.
Sunny Savita: Can you see the model is being loaded? Is it visible to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so what is a file? The actual file? The actual file name is a save tensor.
Sunny Savita: Now here, guys, if I will print this model.
Sunny Savita: Can you see this entire detail related to the model? Is it visible to all of you, this entire detail of the model? This one?
Sunny Savita: Can you see this entire detail to the model?
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm picking this particular detail, this BERT model detail.
Sunny Savita: And I'm passing it to the cloud again, okay?
Sunny Savita: And I'm asking to the cloud, Can you explain me?
Sunny Savita: Can you explain me this entire detail, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, why I'm doing it? So that even you can take a same approach, and you can also use the AI. Because nowadays, UI is very… AI is very, very important. If you're not going to be… integrate AI in your work, in your learning, then it's going to be very difficult for you guys to move ahead, okay? You are going to be… lose your productivity.
Sunny Savita: Right? You will not directly be fired, but yeah, you will lose your productivity, so use the AI for anything. So what it is saying, guys, it is saying.
Sunny Savita: This takes raw ID and produce a 7684 dimension vector. What is the meaning of that, guys? Tell me. So, the word emitting model, it is using, it is going to be produced a 768768 dimension. Now, if we're talking about the, actual transformer model.
Sunny Savita: the, base transformer model, attention all you need. So, what was the dimension size over there?
Sunny Savita: 512 was the dimension size, correct? Correct. Right? Okay, now here, what is the dimension size? So here, the dimension size is 768. Getting my point? Now, here you can see what embedding maps each token, how many tokens it is using.
Sunny Savita: How many vocabulary token is it is having, this model?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, how many vocabulary token it is having? 30,000 vocabulary token. And each token is having a dimension of how much? Each token is having a dimension of how much? 768.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Now, position embedding. So, map each of 512 possible position. So, if we're talking about the position encoding, so how many positions it is able to detect.
Sunny Savita: 5-12 possible position.
Sunny Savita: It is able to detect. Means, whatever sequence we have, so in that particular sequence, 512 position, it is able to identify… sorry, 512 position, it is able to, define sequentially, okay? 512 position, it is able to define sequentially inside that particular sentence, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, guys, you can see, so we are passing a center, that is fine. Now, how many bot encoder… what is a stack of the layer? 12 stack, right? So, 12 encoder blocks it is having.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys, right? And over here, you can see the complete detail, what is the hidden size? Okay, hidden size is this one. Then, after the hidden size, the output size is this one, 768. So, can I show you via, can I show you the entire thing, this entire detail, using the code itself?
Sunny Savita: So let me do one thing, let me run that particular code now.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so you will get it. So guys, here, if you will see, so I have written each and everything, each and every parameter, basically, I'm going to be executed, just focus for, 15 more minutes, right?
Sunny Savita: So what I have, guys, I have model and quota.layer. So if I'm going to be executed, so what I'm getting, guys, tell me what is… what it is.
Sunny Savita: Can anyone tell me what it is? 12? 12 layer, right? So this is the 12 encoder layer. I am calling this model encoder.layer Attention. So what I'm getting, guys, over here.
Sunny Savita: I'm getting the feed-forward network, as well as the
Sunny Savita: basically, self-attention layer, right? So if I'm going to run it, guys, so here you can see the complete detail of the self-attention, as well as the feed-forward network also, right? Now, guys, can you tell me what it is?
Sunny Savita: what I'm doing over here.
Sunny Savita: So I'm checking, basically, each and every layer, okay? So I can visualize each and every layer. So here, if I'm going to be executed, so I can visualize each and every layer, each and every encoder, basically.
Sunny Savita: So, layer encoder 1, encoder 2, encoder 3, encoder 4, encoder 5, encoder 6. Now, tell me, guys, if we're talking about the real architecture of the transformer, right, the actual architecture, so what was the stack size over there? How many, basically, encoder and decoder block we were having over there? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: So, we're talking about the actual one, so there we were having the 6 encoder and decoder block.
Sunny Savita: How many encoder and decoder block, guys? Tell me. 6 encoder and decoder blocks. Now, here you can see, if we're talking about the bird, so how many blocks we have? We have 12 block.
Sunny Savita: Okay? I will show you with a meta model also, with the Lama model also, right? If I'm going to be executed, guys, so what we are able to see over here, can you tell me? So, we are able to see the query, key, and value dimensions.
Sunny Savita: In each and every layer, in each and every encoder layer, we will… we are able to see the query key and value dimension.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So the model have been trained with the self-attention mechanism, and we are able to see the query, key, and value dimension also, with respect to this particular model, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, guys, you can see some more metadata you will have over here. So, you can see over here the hidden size, okay, 768, number of layers, 12, attention heads 12, intermediate size is 3072. Getting my point, guys? Is it getting clear to all of you? What is the meaning of that?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, yes or no. If you're not able to understand this hidden size and the intermediate size, let me explain you that. So, if you have gone through with my transformer architecture.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, We are going to be passed the data from the self-attention.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, let's say we have a self-attention layer.
Sunny Savita: Self-attention layer.
Sunny Savita: Then, from the self-attention, this data is being passed to the feed-forward neural network.
Sunny Savita: So, we're talking about the feed-forward neural network.
Sunny Savita: So, there we have how many layers, tell me. So, there we have 3 layers. One is called the input layer.
Sunny Savita: Second is called the header layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And the fourth one is called the output layer.
Sunny Savita: So guys, the size of this particular layer is a 768.
Sunny Savita: The size of this particular layer is a 768.
Sunny Savita: Okay, 768. Now, this is called the intermediate layer. This hidden layer, actually, it's called the intermediate layer, and this is what they are talking about. Now, we're talking about the original transformer architecture.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the original transformer architecture, what was the size of this one? Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: 2048 was the size. Now, we're talking about the original transformer architecture, so the size of this one was the 512.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and size was the 5.12.
Sunny Savita: Now, we're talking about the board, guys, so the board size is how much? 768. Okay?
Sunny Savita: Bird size is what? Bird size is a 768. Now, we're talking about the board one, so what is the size of it, guys? Tell me. What is the size of the board?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the board, guys, so here you will see the size. The size is going to be what? The size is going to be nothing.
Sunny Savita: The size is going to be 3072. Okay, so let me write over here. So the board size is going to be 3072.
Sunny Savita: Understood? Is it getting clear to all of you, what I'm trying to say?
Sunny Savita: I hope now it is clear. So here we have an input layer, this is my input layer.
Sunny Savita: This is my header layer.
Sunny Savita: And this is what… this is my output layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So the data is being passed from this particular neural network, and inside the bot, the dimension is 768.
Sunny Savita: then 3072, and then 768. So this is what, basically, they are talking about. Is it clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no. You can check out with my transformer session, you will get the clear-cut understanding over there.
Sunny Savita: Understood, guys? Okay, so this is the complete detail. Here you can see, basically, I written in the, basically theory also, you can read it out that. Now, if you're passing the input to the model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? For the inferencing, guys, for the inferencing, we are passing that particular input to the model, so here you can see this is the input, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, let me show you the input, basically. What is my input? So, this is my input, basically. Now, we are passing this particular input to where? We are passing this particular input to the model. So model, and this is my input, and what I'll be getting, guys, I'll be getting the output. So here, I will be getting what? I'll be getting the process vector.
Sunny Savita: If you will look into this particular output, you will be getting what? You will be getting the process vector. So this is what, guys, this one. This is my process vector, which is being processed by the… which is being processed by what? Which is being processed by the…
Sunny Savita: Tell me BERT model, okay? Now, guys, here, in the initial of the model, basically, I told you one thing.
Sunny Savita: If we are going to be using the AutoModel class.
Sunny Savita: So what kind of model it is going to be load, can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: We are going to be using the AutoModel class, so it's going to be use the raw model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it's going to be load the raw model. So, we are going to be load the raw BERT model.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, tell me, guys, what it is. This…
Sunny Savita: This is nothing, it is an encoder one only.
Sunny Savita: So, we are passing a data over here. We are passing a data over here.
Sunny Savita: And what we will be getting from here, guys, tell me.
Sunny Savita: We will be getting the processed vector.
Sunny Savita: We will be getting what?
Sunny Savita: Processed vector.
Sunny Savita: Now, this particular vector, basically, it is processed by whom? This particular vector is processed by this BERT model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This particular model… this particular, basically, vector, this particular vector, this vector, this particular vector is processed by whom? This is processed by this encoder model, which is a BERT model. So we were having the input, what was my input, guys?
Sunny Savita: My input was this… this one. Let me show you the input. What was my input? So my input was this one.
Sunny Savita: What was my input, guys?
Sunny Savita: Hello, how are you? Something like that, right? So that was my input. So, let me show you what was my input. Here, basically, I was passing the input now, I was converting into the tokens, correct? So, this, this, this, this, this, where, where, where?
Sunny Savita: This was my input. Hello, how are you?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this particular input we are passing here, so this particular input we are passing for the TUDA model, so that it is going to be convert, it's going to be convert this particular input into the process vector. It is a raw model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so what will be the output of the raw model? So, we're talking about the raw model, so the output of the raw model is going to be a process vector, okay? We haven't used any sort of a head over here.
Sunny Savita: If we are going to be using any sort of a hat, guys, then only I will get a prediction.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, what I will be getting, I'll be getting a prediction.
Sunny Savita: Right? Whether I have to do the sentiment analysis, or summarization, or generation, any sort of a thing. So on top of this particular encoder had, or decoder, and on top of this encoder and the decoder, basically, you will be having the HAD.
Sunny Savita: Right? Then only you will be getting the final prediction. So, if we're talking about the hugging phase, so they are providing you the different, different classes with this head, actually.
Sunny Savita: So I will show you those specific classes also, but this auto model, actually, it is just going to be load the raw model, which will be provided to the process vector, which is going to be processed through this transformer-based encoder architecture.
Sunny Savita: So if you wanted to see the raw output, so here you can see the raw output, guys. Let me show you the raw output after the model. So, if we are going to be passed that input to the model, see, we are going to be passed the input to the model, okay? So, this is my output. Now, here you can see the output.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the first vector, second vector, third vector, 4, 5, 6, 7. So, as many as token we have, it's going to be provider output according to that, okay? So, see, this is the met… this is the complete metrics, basically, which we have.
Sunny Savita: So when I was teaching you the transformer, I told you that we will be getting the final metrics. So this is our final metrics, which we are getting after the processing.
Sunny Savita: If you're not able to remember, what you can do, guys, you can simply go and check out with my transformer, you can simply go and check out with my transformer intuition. So, if you will go and check out with the PDF, basically.
Sunny Savita: So, there you will get… so I was teaching you the same thing. So, after the processing, okay, when we are going to be processed the data from the transformer encoder, so what we will be getting, we will be getting this kind of metrics, okay? You can check out with those particular, handwritten notes. I already explained you that, so here is the one.
Sunny Savita: So, we have processed the data, and we are getting this particular vector. Now, let me show you which token is associated to which vector. So, first of all, let me show you the shape. So, this is the shape.
Sunny Savita: So, the size… this is the best size, this is the total number of token, and each token is having 768 dimension, okay? Now, here, guys, I have appended… sorry, here, basically, I have associated every token with their respective vector, okay? So, this metrics, basically, which we are getting, so here only I have shown you which token is associated to which particular vector.
Sunny Savita: So this CLS is associated with this one, hello is associated with this one, this comma is associated with this vector, how is associated with this vector. So this is being… this particular data is transform… this particular data is processed by the transformer.
Sunny Savita: encoder, okay, which is a BERT model. I hope you are able to see. And at the end, we will be getting this particular metrics, and here we are getting.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, here you will see in the result, basically, we are getting one more output, that is a polar output.
Sunny Savita: So when I search with the internet, when I deep dive into this particular output, so this is nothing, actually, so it is giving one extra output also, means this Hugging Face have customized some code, and they are giving some one extra output also. So this vector, actually, it is nothing, it is a, basically, mean vector of all this vector.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so it is containing the essence of all this vector. So it is… they are giving you an extra output, which is nothing, which is the mean of all this vector. That's it, guys. But this is the actual output, which we are getting from the model. Now your… all the doubts and all everything is going to be clear. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: going everything over the head. Locusi, if you are not able to… see, if you are not going to be revised all those sessions now.
Sunny Savita: It's going to be difficult for you, for sure. And believe me, in single shot, no one get this entire detail, even if you're teaching to me also, right, even I will not get. This entire thing is a required practice.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, my job to teach you, to explain you, to provide you the code, okay? But, rest, you will have to put some effort.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So do one thing, after the session, after the class, just execute this notebook one more time, right? Just watch this video one more time, just do the revision, and this applicable for all of you guys. This is applicable for all of you.
Sunny Savita: So watch out this recording, execute this entire code by yourself, connect with the transformer session, whatever I taught with respect to the architecture and all. Automatically, you will get everything.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? But believe me, guys, this thing is a typical one, okay? Until and unless we are not going to be recall all the things, we are not going to be connect all the dots, okay, in terms of the theory, you know, whatever I taught, right? In practical, it is very simple. If we are going to be executing the cell, sell, sell, I will get the output, that's it.
Sunny Savita: But again, guys, if you wanted to address everything in detail, then a revision is required. After that, whatever doubts you have, you can ask me in a doubt session. I will be clarifying that. Got it? Great.
Sunny Savita: Now, what kind of practice? What kind of practice, Rona?
Sunny Savita: What kind of practice, huh?
Sunny Savita: You have to take this code, you have to execute it. If you are not getting anything, then watch out the recording again, right? And still, if you're not getting, then ask the same thing in a doubt session. So this is the actual way of learning, and even I have shown you how to use the AI
Sunny Savita: what you can do, you can simply provide this particular notebook to the cloud also, right? So let's say this is my notebook. If I'll provide to the cloud, if I'll ask.
Sunny Savita: Can you explain?
Sunny Savita: Me.
Sunny Savita: the code… In a simple way.
Sunny Savita: Line by line.
Sunny Savita: Right? Line by line.
Sunny Savita: I can easily get the explanation using the AI also, right? So we have a multiple way of clearing the doubt, using the AI, via mentor, right? Just go through with a notebook, run it by yourself, revise via videos, multiple ways we have.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, whatever I'm teaching, guys.
Sunny Savita: On top of that, you also require the revision. Got it? Now, see? It will, give you the entire explanation over here. And whatever I'm teaching, you see, it has given you in a single shot, the entire explanation. Whatever you will ask, it will basically explain you that in a better way, I think more than me, maybe.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the advantage of the AI. So, just take a pro subscription of the cloud or the GPT, provide your code, provide your file to this AI assistant, and even it will also help you to understand the code base. Gotting my point?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, now what we can do, guys, it just… it will just cost you $20, I think. You can check out, $20 is a cost for the pro version of the cloud, okay?
Sunny Savita: Fine. Now, what I'm doing, guys, here.
Sunny Savita: I have shown you what is the output of the model, right? Now, see, this is just the image which I capped, how many heads we have inside the…
Sunny Savita: or encoder, sorry, inside the BERT model, right? 12 heads, or something like that, right? Now, if we're talking about the auto model classes, so, Chad, this… Hugging Face is providing you the different, different classes, actually, okay? Hugging Face is providing the different, different classes, so for the mask language modeling, this is the class. See, this is the base model. You will get the raw model using that.
Sunny Savita: Right? No head will be there, you will just get a raw output. Now, it is providing the different, different classes, like mask, LM, sequence classification, token classification.
Sunny Savita: than this causal LM. Have you, have you heard about this causal LM? Anyone heard about this one?
Sunny Savita: Auto model for causal LM. Have you gone through with this one? Tell me, yes or no. So this particular class, using this particular class only, we are going to be load…
Sunny Savita: We are going to be load all the LLMs, actually, using this auto model class. So, for loading all the GPT-style model, which is responsible for the text generation, we are going to be using this particular class.
Sunny Savita: AutoModel for Causal LM, right? So, I kept one example, here you can see. So, this time I'm using this class, auto model for mask LM, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, here is my model. I'm going to be, like, load the tokenizer. I'm going to be load my actual LLM. Now, here I'm going to be predicting the next word, okay, using this BERT model, okay?
Sunny Savita: Using the BERT model, right? So, this is my text, guys. This text, inside the text, basically, I return one token mass token, okay? Now, what I'm doing, I'm converting my data into the tokens.
Sunny Savita: Then I'm passing it to the model, and then I'm predicting the next word. So once I'll execute this particular code, what I'll be getting, I'll be getting the next token. See, the next token is a U.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, in the early days, when we were working with the… when we were working, basically, with the BERT model, when we were working with the BART, distal BERT, Roberta, in 2019 and 20s, right? So, we were using these particular models, okay, BERT model and all, for the next token prediction.
Sunny Savita: sorry, for the classification, for the summarization, right? For the masked language modeling, where we are going to be predicting the next word on the next token, right? Using this masking, this one.
Sunny Savita: And for that, this Hugging Face is provided as a separate class. We can directly utilize this class, and whatever code have been needed in a backend, it is executing that, and it is providing the output, okay, using that particular model. But nowadays, we have an advanced LLM.
Sunny Savita: And those LLMs, those GPT-style LLM, which is specifically designed for generating a text only, those entire LLM you will be getting inside this class, AutoModel CausalLM, right? So whether it's a Meta, Mistral, GPT, Quen, Gamma.
Sunny Savita: phi, whatever state-of-heart model you are seeing which is responsible for the text generation. So those are all the models, basically, you can load using this particular class.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no? So here, I have, inputted this class. Now, this is what, guys? This is my model name. I'm inputting a tokenizer. Here is my model. Now, this is my prompt, okay? Here I have an input. I'm tokenizing that input. I'm passing that input to the model, and then I'm going to decode that, means I'm going to be…
Sunny Savita: generate the final response. Let me show you the final response. So, here, guys, after loading the model, tokenizer, and all, everything.
Sunny Savita: It will generate the final response, right?
Sunny Savita: See, guys, this is running, this is working. Now, whatever parameter we were seeing around to the VERT model, now, all those things you can see around to this meta model also. Now, see, this is a model, we are going to be printing the model, this is all the metadata, all the detail about the model. You can check out the complete configuration of that, right?
Sunny Savita: So I will execute that, and one by one, I will show you each and everything. Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: class timing is 8 to 11. I am taking till 10.30, okay? But I can extend up to the 11 also, because we are taking frequent breaks also, no, Rahul. And how I can leave this 2 to 3 line of code, right? Just for the next class. So let's complete it. Getting my point, Rahul?
Sunny Savita: Guys, you should not have problem in everything.
Sunny Savita: Like, everyone is having a different perspective, everyone having a different problem. Otherwise, I will not assist this kind of question in all, lah.
Sunny Savita: Sir, why you are taking out till 11 o'clock? Sir, 5 minute or okay? Sir, this… why you explain this, sir? This… I… I'm not able to recall. You are explaining this.
Sunny Savita: Let us then revise this thing. Sapka aapna chalrah.
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. And the things is very easy, right? Once you will go through with this entire thing, you will find out it's very easy.
Sunny Savita: You just required your own attention, okay? Your own…
Sunny Savita: basically, practice on top of this entire code and all, okay? Now, over here, I think, we are able to generate the reinforcement learning in simple words, so it is generating…
Sunny Savita: something. I think the output is not… Good, maybe so.
Sunny Savita: output, yes. See, this is the output, basically, which we are getting. I think, we need to be provide the more prompt, more thing, and need to be used a good model. I think it is not.
Sunny Savita: able to provide a current as well. But yeah, technically it is working, okay? So you can check out with a different, different other model, you can provide that, right? Let's decode this model, this one, this Llama model, tiny Lama model, which is provided by the meta itself, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, over here, what I'm doing, I see, I'm printing the model, so this is the complete metadata of the model, complete detail of the model, right? Now, I'm calling the different, different parameters. So, model, config, number of hidden layer, hidden size, number of attention heads, and the vocabulary size. So, once I've got executed, guys, here you will get the different, different detail.
Sunny Savita: So, can you even tell me what is our attention head, how many decoder stack they are going to be used inside this meta model?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: We were talking about the attention head, so 32, correct.
Sunny Savita: So in meta model, they're going to be used 13. What is the hidden size? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: 2048 is a hidden size. Layers, 22 layers. Okay.
Sunny Savita: And here, 30, 32000 is a vocabulary size. Now, here you can see the model layer.
Sunny Savita: So, model layer is 22. Let me check out the metadata. What is actually the 204 liter model? Okay, this is the embedding size. Fine, guys. So, I think there is 22 layers, 22 decoder size. Okay. 22 decoder size they have mentioned.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so inside the metadata also, you can see 22 layers is there.
Sunny Savita: Had, basically, it is a different thing. This had, I think it… whatever we are getting, I had this one.
Sunny Savita: Attention head. Attention… okay, multi-year attention. Got it, got it, got it, guys. So, in multi-year attention, right? If we're talking about the… basically, a real transformer, so what was the head size? Multi-aired attention? There was an 8, right?
Sunny Savita: So here, the head size is 32.
Sunny Savita: 32 is a head size over here. Even we can check the parameter also, I'll show you that. It's very easy. THR, I'll show you in the next class, right?
Sunny Savita: So there's a layer size, 22 decoder size is there, then QKB value is also… you can also see over here, then even you can check the QKB with respect to each and every layer, right? Now, here, if I am checking the…
Sunny Savita: this one. Basically, this is my text, this is my input. If I'm going to convert this token IDs into the, basically, actual words, so you will see which token ID is belonging to which particular token, okay? So, how the tiny llama model is going to be converted?
Sunny Savita: each ID into the token, okay? So here you can see that association also, this one. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, yeah, I hope this entire thing is clear.
Sunny Savita: now, basically, you can run it, and you can understand, right, the rest of the lines. Nothing is there, we are just going to be generating the output after that. Now, guys, one more important thing. So, as of now, if we are going to be download the model, so we are… sorry, if we are going to be load the model from the hugging phase, where we are going to be load that model.
Sunny Savita: Tell me. So we are going to be load that model inside the RAM.
Sunny Savita: But let's say if you wanted to download that model in your local.
Sunny Savita: If you wanted to download that model in your local, so how you will do that? How you will download the model in your local? So for that, guys, there is a specific method which is provided by the Hugging Face, okay? The method name is what? The method name is a snapshot download.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, using this particular method, what you can do, you can download the model in your local, okay, on your local disk, inside your local disk. So, what you have to do, you just have to be provide a couple of parameters to this model, to this method.
Sunny Savita: So you have to provide the repo ID, then where you wanted to save the model, and local directory use same links. So what is the meaning of the same links? Here I have written, local directory use same link is equal to true.
Sunny Savita: create shortcut that point to the original file. Means, let's say, if you have,
Sunny Savita: downloaded a file, and if it is in a cache, right? So it will just show you the shortcut, like the Windows shortcut.
Sunny Savita: And the files will be available somewhere, right? But if you're going to use the false, then it will create… it will download the… it will copy the actual file inside your targeted folder, right? So this is the use of this particular parameter. So as of now, I kept it false, so that I can get all the folder… all the model file and all everything inside.
Sunny Savita: this particular folder, okay? Test folder. So what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to create one test folder over here. Let me do it.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm going to be create a test folder. Now, inside this test folder only, okay, not test, basically, I can keep a different name over here. So I'm going to be rename it, I'm going to be, right, Download.
Sunny Savita: model.
Sunny Savita: on disk, okay? So this is what, this is my, basically, folder name. So inside this particular folder, I can keep my model. I'm going to be copy the path, and I'm going to be keep it over here.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'm doing, I'm just going to be executed, guys.
Sunny Savita: Snapshot is not… okay, let me execute this first, then this one.
Sunny Savita: So, see, the model is downloading, and where it is downloading, it is downloading inside this particular folder.
Sunny Savita: Are you able to see this model.tensor here?
Sunny Savita: So I can directly load my model from here itself, okay?
Sunny Savita: So you can directly load the model from your desk. So, if anyone is having a concern, sir, I cannot work.
Sunny Savita: Right? I cannot work with any API. I want a model in my local, like, Olama. So Hugging Face is also providing you that, functionality where you can download the model on your system, like Olama. Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, how's the session? Are you learning so many things in a single session now, right?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, you can download the, you can download the model in your local, and then from there, you can load it using the same class.
Sunny Savita: So, yeah, it is done. My model is there inside this particular folder. The same model, basically, which we are having over the hugging phase, correct?
Sunny Savita: It is there inside the disk. I can keep it anywhere, right? Even I can keep it inside the drive also. I just need to provide that a specific link where I want to download that.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll just copy the path of that, and then I'll load it. So here, I'm going to be import this class, auto tokenizer, auto model. Here is what? Here is my tokenizer. See, there's my tokenizer. Now, here is what? Here is my model. Sorry, this is the path now. I given the wrong path.
Sunny Savita: So this is a model, guys. See, I'm able to load my model as well. It is loading our weights, and model is done. And now this time, guys, it is loading a model from my disk itself.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, this time it's loading a model for my disk itself. You can keep this model on any server, it's up to you. Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, fine, guys, I think this is the one, this is the thing, basically, I have to show you with respect to the hugging phase. Now we are done with the hugging phase. If you know this much in the hugging phase, I think we are good to go. We can fine-tune any sort of a model.
Sunny Savita: Right? We can, basically fine-tune any sort of a model, and the session is end. Now, one more thing, I think this I already explained you. Did you explain… did I explain you how to, how to load the embedding model, and how to convert the data into the embeddings?
Sunny Savita: The small code, I captured over here as well, you can go through with it, okay?
Sunny Savita: If you're not aware about it, you can… as I've shown you now, I took the 2-3 session over the embedding, what you are saying. See, you will get the entire coding and all everything, even I've given you an assignment also.
Sunny Savita: Why you are saying Noah?
Sunny Savita: No.
Sunny Savita: See, this is the, like, code, what is this? This one.
Sunny Savita: Class 08, 18 April… what is this, guys? Zota LLM embedding, huh?
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Just check out with this particular class, 18 April class, you will get that.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Yeah, Anslot also, I will show you after the hugging phase, we'll discuss that, right? Means, I'll show you the fine-tuning. There, I don't need to discuss this entire, detail and thing. Directly, we can do the fine-tuning of that. So guys, do the one thing, check out with this 18th May of class.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, not 18th, 18th approval of class.
Sunny Savita: Yevala, Yevala class, okay? Check out with this particular class. There, you will get the entire showtime bedding and all everything, right? Here.
Sunny Savita: And this entire code which I mentioned over here, no, for these embedding models, this one.
Sunny Savita: For this embedding model, right? You will get it over there. You know now, right? How many of you know, if you're attending the session for the first time, I've shown you how to fetch the… how to get the cosine similarity, and how to convert any sort of, like, text into the embedding and all, right? I think many of you know, right?
Sunny Savita: So fine, guys, thank you for joining the session. I hope you liked the class.
Sunny Savita: So, how was the session? How would you like to rate? How much you would like to rate out of 10?
Sunny Savita: Because I concluded almost all the thing with respect to this, hugging phase. I think if you're good to go with this thing, then you can understand everything about the previous, thing, whatever we have learned, as well as this, entire hugging phase. The native, basically, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, tomorrow, I will start with the actual fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: How you can take your own custom data, and how you can fine-tune that.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, to be honest, right, be honest, do you want the session tomorrow, or want to watch the IPL, huh?
Sunny Savita: Because still many people are, saying.
Sunny Savita: Let me create one more poll, okay? Wait, wait for one minute.
Sunny Savita: see, even I wanted to take, like, one day rest, right? Because…
Sunny Savita: Saturday to… sorry, Monday to Friday office, and then two-day classes. No worries, guys. See, if you want to… if you want classes, I can do that. I don't have any issue, right? Just tell me, because still many people are saying, sir, class…
Sunny Savita: tomorrow cancel and all. Let me, launch one poll, and let me take input from your end only, okay? I'm not deciding from my end anything.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so until what I can do, guys, I can check if anything I added over here, I don't think it's having the entire code.
Sunny Savita: Handwritten one, yes, this is the one.
Sunny Savita: I think a couple of things are there. So, guys, I'm capturing the handwritten notes, okay? I'll provide you this as well.
Sunny Savita: Code is updated, everything is there. Now, let me send it to you.
Sunny Savita: Anything extra, I don't think I added over here, this is fine, this is fine.
Sunny Savita: Okay, the entire code is there.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so I, updated the notes as well, so please check out it over the… GitHub.
Sunny Savita: I'm providing you the link of the GitHub, okay, wait.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the notes from the latest class, this one.
Sunny Savita: Please practice with this entire GitHub, or sorry, entire hugging Face, and
Sunny Savita: Then in the next class, what we are going to do, we are going to do the actual fine-tuning. So, 62% people are saying no, 38% people are saying yes.
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys, so I got some, idea. So what I'll do, I'll discuss with my management, and according to that, you will get a response, okay? Even I will inform you in the community chat, or sorry, committee chat also. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, thank you guys, thank you for joining the session, and I'll see you in the next class, and you will get the
Sunny Savita: detail, see, if you are going to cancel that, you will get it via mail. If you are not going to cancel, class is already scheduled. You have to join that class. Got it? Great. So, thank you guys, bye, take care. I'll see you in the next class. After that, I'll start at the doubt session. Thank you very much.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so let's start with the session.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, let's start with the doubt session.
Sunny Savita: Please raise the hand if you have any sort of a doubt.
Sunny Savita: Yes, Saini, what's your doubt?
Sunny Savita: Sai Bevo, please go ahead with your doubt. You can unmute yourself, and you can ask the doubt.
sai vaibhav: Hi, sir, can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I can hear you.
sai vaibhav: So, basically, I'm from studying in the field of AIML, so my college placement is not as good.
sai vaibhav: So, I want to, like, like, what kind of role I should apply as a fresher,
sai vaibhav: What should I know now? What should I study about? So, I haven't covered in this, sir.
Sunny Savita: So, as a fresher, see.
sai vaibhav: Yes.
Sunny Savita: you should not only focus over the AI.
Sunny Savita: Okay, you should focus over the fundamental also, and you should not go ahead, you should not, go only for the AI roles.
sai vaibhav: Right?
Sunny Savita: Because I've seen many fresher edges, they are just learning the AI, they are not focusing on the basic and the fundamental, correct? So, you should not chase that thing, right? So, first, do one thing.
Sunny Savita: Blake…
Sunny Savita: learn about the programming, okay? Be good, like, little good in your DSA concepts, okay? And whatever fundamental thing is required for the software development, right? Web development, understand that, like, databases, the basic concept of the web development.
sai vaibhav: Okay.
Sunny Savita: API creation and all that said, right? After that, on top of it, learn the AI thing.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
sai vaibhav: working.
Sunny Savita: The AI, basically, your fundamental should be clear. Fundamental of the AI, like, the advanced NLP concept.
Sunny Savita: theoretical concept, and then the practical, like, fine-tuning, right, agents, and some application, you can create, and then you can deploy that, okay? So, focus on the fundamental.
Sunny Savita: programming.
Sunny Savita: DSA, concept of the development, okay? And they include cloud as well, and on top of it, learn the AI and all. Got it? And what kind of role you should go for? So, basically, it depends.
sai vaibhav: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so if any companies are coming with a role like data analytics, data scientist, MLE, generative AI engineer, okay, you can go for that. But apart from that.
Sunny Savita: If you're getting any sort of a role in the technical one, let's say Python developer, you are getting associate, in consulting, basically, you'll get associate, or something like that, right? And if they are providing you any work related to the development, okay, even the basic one, do that as of now. Gotting my point.
sai vaibhav: Yeah, yeah, sir. Just one more question. So, what kind of projects I should do, I should keep in my resume and do?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can do whatever project I've mentioned inside the syllabus, okay, along with the entire development cycle. It will be enough. Got it?
sai vaibhav: Okay, sir, okay. Sir, if I… if I see this lecture, because today was the first day I joined, so I completed index and section and, the setup session today.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
sai vaibhav: So, if I cover this entire session, will this be enough for me to get into a role like Gen AI engineer?
Sunny Savita: Huh, you can, basically get into the Gen AI after learning this entire course, okay? But as I told you, many companies don't prefer Fresher as an AI engineer, right?
Sunny Savita: You will not see, like, many companies, right? So, either they take the intern, then they train inside their company, or else they take it after 2 to 3 years of experience, okay? So, I will first tell you, you are learning Gen AI, that is good, but along with that, focus on the other thing as well, the basic and the fundamental of the
Sunny Savita: engineering, use the AI, build the AI, and go for any technical role. Got it?
sai vaibhav: Okay, sir, okay, thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, take… Guys, give me a moment.
Sunny Savita: Wait, wait, wait a moment.
Sunny Savita: Behavi Shake, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, Abhishek, you can go ahead now.
Abhishek: Yes.
Abhishek: And this is Abhi, I recently passed out a BSA campus, and
Abhishek: I am a Python future developer, and I experienced with DevOps, with AWS, and I also learned image on the AI and Identify.
Abhishek: Facing the issue of the pressures right now, there is an openings within, and…
Abhishek: I'm fed up with that, and I am applying in online for the year, but there is no calls, and I'm using ATS Resume only. I'm fed up with that, and I am using the contents, and what you just asked for me for that,
Sunny Savita: Okay, so can you show me your resume? What kind of resume you've prepared?
Abhishek: How can I…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can share the skin, you can show me, okay?
Abhishek: been, resuming now.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, if you have handy right now, you can show me, I'll check, and I'll give you a few suggestions, and we'll see why you are not getting the call, what kind of experience in the project you mentioned there, okay?
Abhishek: Let's still waiting.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, meanwhile, Sandeep, Lakshmi, anyone having any doubts?
Jyoti Gupta: Sunday.
Sandeep: Actually, Sunny, I… if you remember, some weeks back, you had given an assignment regarding the multimodal conversion, right?
Sandeep: And I would like to share my screen, if you can please give me the… Axis.
Sandeep: So what I did, actually, on my Mac, I, installed the Olama and then the Quen model, and to develop this multimodal thing, right? Because I did not have the paid licenses for Germany or Cloud, right?
Sandeep: I thought of using the local LLM, because Crane is good.
Sandeep: But the only problem what I'm facing is, right now, after generating the application, I wanted to use two purposes, right? One, to develop my core, right?
Sandeep: Write the code for me on a local machine without having restrictions to token and all, right? Second thing is, the app that I'm using, it should reason and then response.
Sandeep: Based on the text, audio, video, whatever it is, right?
Sandeep: from the local machine as an option, as a default option, right? And then, if I want to select something.
Sandeep: from the, you know, Cloud or OpenAI, it should be able to provide that. But the only problem what I'm facing is, I'm not able to leverage my Quen
Sandeep: which is installed on the local, after my Streamlit app is basically, you know, active.
Sandeep: So, it keeps saying that, the OLAMA model is not available. So, when I'm going through the debug process and all sort of internet, it shows, like, certain ports are blocked, right? But even despite following the…
Sunny Savita: You use it via Langchen, no?
Sandeep: Okay.
Sunny Savita: I have given you one more way to use that.
Sunny Savita: You are exposing it on some port, right, and your machine is not accepting, and even it is refusing, okay? So maybe it is being used somewhere in a backend, and there you are not able to host your OLAMA, right? So do one thing, just try out with the Langshan ones. Automatically, it will handle in a backend, you will be able to do that, or use that.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So just check out with my code, I have shown you one code snippet, langshan via Olama. Use that way, and tell me if it is working or not. If it is not working, we'll check that, okay?
Sandeep: Okay, and the… another… the first issue that I said is, basically, in my VS Code, I want to use Quane on the local machine as my agent for developing the code, actually, because.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Sandeep: Many times.
Sunny Savita: Aha, same. You can use the Lang Chen only, you know, they are. So you just require the LLM only, correct? You already have Ollama, you pull the coin, no, use it via Langshan itself. Use the Langchen wrapper, no? Got it?
Sandeep: Okay, because it says some continue, named, add-in is there. Using continue, it has a chat model in which…
Sandeep: We can do that, basically, so I readily used it, but it's not actually taking into effect. Langchain is basically for any application, right? It, it.
Sunny Savita: Actually, it's just a report to use a model. Now, model is effective or not, that's a different case, okay? So, what kind of application you have, and what kind of input reasoning you are doing? So, that is a different thing, sir, right?
Sandeep: Yeah, because Queen is not responding, even during the… this thing, on my local machine, VS Code, when I'm chatting…
Sunny Savita: do one thing, use the Langchen ones, and you can show me that, okay?
Sandeep: Okay, fine. I'll read that, thank you.
Jyoti Gupta: Also, joking.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, wait, wait, wait. Abhishek, yeah, can you zoom in a little bit?
Abhishek: Yes, sir.
Sunny Savita: Oh… How much experience you have?
Abhishek: I'm a fresher, sir.
Sunny Savita: You are Okay, okay.
Sunny Savita: You worked somewhere as an intern or something?
Abhishek: Yeah, it's a product story.
Sunny Savita: Where you work. And you are in, fourth year, or you're in your third year, where you are, right?
Abhishek: Yeah, I'm BSC Computer, sir. I passed out in 2025.
Sunny Savita: Okay, you passed in 2025, corrected. After that, you didn't get any call and all, right?
Abhishek: Okay, so…
Sunny Savita: BCA, right? BCA or BSC, what you mentioned?
Abhishek: biase converso.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, BSE Computer Science, got it, got it.
Sunny Savita: Siri, actually, no, right now, what companies are looking for?
Sunny Savita: Can you show me your project experience next month? Now, this is a learning project, right?
Sunny Savita: This kind of project, even, say, someone is looking into your resume.
Sunny Savita: They will not find out any value.
Abhishek: Right?
Sunny Savita: Means, they will just think, you learn all this thing, the entire thing.
Sunny Savita: and you put it inside your resume, okay? And this is true as well, because
Sunny Savita: You have not… you have not done any, basically, real-time project. So how you can showcase that work, even though you haven't, completed any real-time project and all? There are various ways. You can showcase some hackathon work.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: You can showcase some freelance work. You got any project and all via someone, right? You did that. You can showcase in your… you can showcase in your internal work, right? You did any project, you know, finally, or something like that, on a bigger scale.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, you can create the category, personal project, you can create the category like freelance, you can create a category like a hackathon. So, with that, people might relate.
Sunny Savita: That you have done some actual work.
Sunny Savita: Right? Actual work, anywhere, correct? This type of thing is not going to be work, in whatever you mention. Okay? Now, the second thing, basically, you always have to be focused on the problem statement, which problem statement you are going to be solved.
Sunny Savita: Let's say you mentioned an AI-related project. So there, you have to be mentioned a business-specific problem, which you solved in a hackathon, which you got it over there for any freelance client.
Sunny Savita: Right? Whether you got paid or not, that is a different kind of thing, right? So this is the one thing where you can, again, reconstruct your resume. Understood.
Sunny Savita: Now, the second thing, how you will get a job, how you will get a role. So, see, getting a job, it's like a different thing. It means you are uploading your resume, your resume is getting selected, you are getting a call, okay, and you're getting selected. That's a very straightforward one.
Sunny Savita: Understood, right? So, after a reconstructive resume, you might get that chance.
Sunny Savita: you can upload over the Nokri, LinkedIn, or various places. This is the one thing. The second thing, basically, is that connects referrals.
Sunny Savita: So let's say one of your friends is working somewhere.
Sunny Savita: In any company, in any startup.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so you can talk with him, if any openings is there, so you can give the interviews.
Sunny Savita: You can prepare well for the interview. Even though you are going to be filled, that is fine. That experience, again, you can use in another interview. So, Connect's referral always works.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, Abhishek, right? So you can go in that way, and you can, basically, apply for the jobs. So first.
Sunny Savita: update the resume, the second, upload it over the various website, and third thing, ask for the referrals. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Oh, okay. Abhisheikh is there. Yes, anytime.
Yash Shukla: Yes, you know.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I hope you got my point, right?
Yash Shukla: Sandra, can I speak?
Sunny Savita: Okay, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Now next out is, yes, Shukla, please go ahead with your doubt.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, wait, wait, Lakshmi was there. Lakshmi, you can go ahead.
Lakshmi: Nice and me.
Lakshmi: Can you hear me?
vishal srivastava: E.
Sunny Savita: Yes, I can hear you. Yes, I can hear you.
Lakshmi: Hi, Sunny, thank you so much for your all sessions. Actually, it's really amazing you are doing.
Lakshmi: Actually, I'm a little bit sick, actually.
Lakshmi: So, I have a few questions, like, regular questions. So, today we are, like, learning all the arguing phase-related stuff, like, where we are, unloading the models, and…
Lakshmi: access the models and either data or models, right? So, in the real-time examples, like in the industry, so where we are doing the real-time applications, in the time also, the same thing, we can, load our,
Lakshmi: our trend model and our own data, we can load in our aging phase, space.
Lakshmi: Like, we can keep it our secret, like, private or public.
Lakshmi: Is it… is it possible?
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, yes. In the same time, in the real time also, we do the same thing, actually.
Lakshmi: Okay, okay. So, yeah, and, Sunday, actually, sometime, actually, if it is… you get the time. Actually, I am not a non-IT person, but…
Lakshmi: I understand everything. So, kind of, like, you give, like, 10 to 15 minutes the thing, explanation about the, the IT industry, like, you know, a lot of, the, things are there, like banking, finance, and the e-commerce, and, a lot of things are there.
Lakshmi: Transportation, so many things, domains, knowledge, you know? Domains, different domains. So, we have all this knowledge, like…
Lakshmi: what kind of applications, really, we build in a, like, in a IT,
Lakshmi: domains, like, if it… if you take some finance domain, either Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan or something. So, what really, actually, we are doing some kind of work over there using these all IT solutions.
Lakshmi: I'm saying, example, RLs in, like, some… we have a FedEx or some other company, either the Bank of America or something. So, what kind of things, actually, we no need to do, deep into that.
Lakshmi: Just to… you say, okay, because we cannot explain any, real-time explanation, because this is very private and secure for the real-time application. Just to give some insight, okay.
Lakshmi: This kind of thing we do, like, yesterday you told, the last week you told some pharmacy in a healthcare industry, like, they have, one kind of private data, the pharmacy kind of data, then we are retraining, I mean.
Lakshmi: We're training, retraining our model, SFT model.
Lakshmi: And then, we are asking the, text generation.
Lakshmi: Right, so in… in the similar way, so you tell different, different example for banking or transportation.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so that thing will discuss once I'll reach to the project partner.
Lakshmi: Yeah, yeah, you are telling, but I'm telling, so, okay. So, it's easy to connectivity, the all, whatever we are learning, so many things, modeling and everything. So, the real question is, like, where, when we are using
Lakshmi: In, what kind of, domain, and where it is really using and useful.
Lakshmi: So, thank you so much, and you're really giving a lot of information, so many connections, and you are teaching and clarifying, and even in the messages also, in the community chat, and everywhere available. It's really not possible
Lakshmi: But you guys are doing an amazing job, and thank you so much, okay?
Sunny Savita: Thank you, ma'am, thank you very much.
Lakshmi: Yeah, but tomorrow, actually, the Monday to Friday, it's really, it's, not possible for so many people, and me also. If it's Saturday, Sunday, it's absolutely fine. If really you need, whenever you need to take a rest and restless.
Lakshmi: Actually, you take it, okay? No problem at all, okay? You take rest, and then you can give next day more insight, or more, you take more, one more, half an hour class extra. That's fine, okay?
Lakshmi: You don't need to ask in the chat, I need rest.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, yeah, ma'am.
Lakshmi: Yeah, you take it rest.
Sunny Savita: I'm asking, too, with that, like, someone saying we have some.
Lakshmi: Vanessa.
Sunny Savita: Something like that. So, with that perspective.
Lakshmi: No, no, actually, before also, you was sick two weeks ago. Even during the sick also, you take all over the classes and teaching so many things.
Lakshmi: It's okay, no problem. You can teach anytime, but health is important, okay? So, you need not to tell everything, I need a rest or something, okay? Just, you take rest and teach me whenever you are really good and extra, okay?
Lakshmi: Thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Sure, sure, ma'am. Thank you very much. Okay, bye. Thank you.
Yash Shukla: Hey, it's funny too.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Lakshmi is done. Just, just a second. Yes, Shukla, what's your doubt?
Yash Shukla: Sir, I just wanted to ask, currently, I had finished my fourth year just a week ago, so, as you've told in the starting, you know, the jobs which are coming in our college are really, you know, very low profile, means the jobs which are coming, they're coming with the role of business development, and, you know.
Yash Shukla: According to my parents and everybody, for people who are spending,
Yash Shukla: money on BTEC, so getting a business development job is really, you know, unimportant. I don't say unimportant, but for BTECH person, it won't be any matter.
Yash Shukla: But, you know, if you can understand, giving 4 years in the college. So, regarding this Ivan question, with the projects which you will be, continuing in the next few, future in this course, so…
Yash Shukla: How much, you know, relevant and, how much helpful will be there in…
Yash Shukla: Our, in the job interviews, the projects will be?
Sunny Savita: And.
Yash Shukla: Secondly, like, as I've told you, my friend was in, Google currently working, so that he said the course is perfectly aligned, but, you know, again, the things come, with respect to job.
Yash Shukla: I'm present in the market, so that I'm a bit nervous about it, so can you please tell.
Sunny Savita: So, see, you can, basically complete the project, right? Until you're not going to complete at least first project, you will not understand.
Sunny Savita: Got it. So, yeah, you are a fresher. As I will suggest to you, spend some time with me, next 2 to 3 months, okay?
Sunny Savita: automatically, your… this doubt will be clarified. How to basically convert this learning into the experience, how to complete the project, how to mention inside the resume, how to approach to the interview and all. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So everything will be clarified. Just spend some time with me. Got it?
Yash Shukla: Okay, sir. Thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next out, Shobik, or Rahul, We're heavy.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Hello?
THR: Can you hear me?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Hello, my social, okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Shobrik, please go ahead.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, so, one, two questions quickly, Sunny. Firstly is that, there was a confusion, from yesterday in the, in the, in the community chat. There was a session on 28th by Yash.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: on some rack pipeline and all. So, just to clarify that, that is not, something with, our course, right?
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, it is not associated with any course, it is just, like, open webinars, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, okay. So, but another point is why that has not been communicated, because I have seen my mail, so even if you guys are doing any webinars, that is useful for us, right? So, that has not been communicated, actually.
Sunny Savita: I'll check, I'll check with the team, okay? So, if you didn't get any mail regarding that, maybe they might miss.
vishal srivastava: In future.
Sunny Savita: you will get, okay? Don't worry.
vishal srivastava: Lambie State.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Oh.
vishal srivastava: I have to… Okay.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: And,
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Can you go mute if you are not speaking, please? Thank you. And, secondly, Sunny, right now, our organization has some openings, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So, now, point is that if, like, if, means, from this group, if, we need to tell, like, suppose, for example, this is the XYZ requirement of that role, so how to cascade that?
Sunny Savita: Can you come again, please? Sorry, I missed you.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: I'm saying, means,
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: we have some opening in our organization, okay? And in the, in the data science role, machine learning, Python, along with the, the person needs to, be good with GitHub Copilot, or Cloud Code, this kind of thing. 3 to 4 years, or 2 to 3 years of…
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: experience.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So, now I know that everyone is not right now at this moment in this session, because it's night, so how to cascade this thing? Can I say this in the community chat, or send you separately?
Sunny Savita: Okay, okay, got it, got it. So you're saying you have some requirement, and you wanted to, like, like, communicate this in a community chat, right? So that you can get.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: If anyone is… Exactly, if anyone is interested.
Sunny Savita: do one thing, just create a Google form with all the broader descriptions, okay, and all the, like, give all the, like, choices, drop-downs, something like that, right? So, and there, basically, you can collect all the profiles and all, and all, if someone is interested, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, just give the option to put the name, mail ID, resume, and then how much experience they have, either they are interested or not, right? Something like that. So, based on your requirement and the understanding.
Sunny Savita: create a Google form, put it into the company chat, okay? And, then whatever profile you're getting, then you can simply directly call to them, those persons, got it?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, is there anything, like, with Chris admin team, I need to talk, or anything?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can, you can, basically, do one thing. I… just, just,
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: I'm just trying to understand the due diligence.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: I'm just trying to understand the due diligence. In that way, I will talk to HR. Also, their due diligence also needs to be satisfied. So, if it is something like a collaboration, or if it is something offline.
Sunny Savita: That is my question. That's what I'm saying. Do one thing, drop a mail to me… you have a mail ID, correct?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I will, send that to my… to the admin person, okay? So he will, drop a mail to the entire batches, okay? And can collect the profile, and then can help to you, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, okay. So, our HR doesn't need to be involved, right?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Here?
Sunny Savita: No, no, no.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Oh, I'm gonna look.
Sunny Savita: provide the profile, then you can trade…
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Exactly, the point is that, why I'm, emphasizing on this point is.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Actually, HR, actually, HR cascades this information in their own way, own channels, once everything is there in place. Right now, if anything we need to do, we need to do offline. Like, for example, I am not also able to post it in LinkedIn, but if anyone is… I know, I ask them… I'm asking them, okay, whether
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: you were searching anything with this thing or not. So, at this moment, if we need to do anything, that needs to be offline.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: And if, once the HR due diligence cleared, then if you say HR to contact you, that is a different thing the organization will think. So, right now, if I need to do it, I need to do it offline.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Offline means it's offline cascading.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Obviously, that person needs to apply in our organization, website, the nature will call all those processes, all those official process will be followed, but right now, if I need to do it, I need to do it offline.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, you can, basically. You can follow the wave which I told, okay, and .
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, cool.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can select… sorry, you can share those details with your HR, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, another, another point is that, like, can I share my screen quickly?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can chill.
Sunny Savita: Until I can take the next down. Yeah, Ashwini, what's the doubt?
Rahul Kumar: Aye.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, please tell me.
Rahul Kumar: Yeah, Raul is saying.
Sunny Savita: Lovely.
Rahul Kumar: Organic.
Sunny Savita: Rahul Kumar.
Rahul Kumar: Yes.
Sunny Savita: Rahul, you can go in.
Rahul Kumar: So, my question is that you've shown… Let,
Rahul Kumar: In the dataset, we have a text-to-label kind of data, right?
Rahul Kumar: The data could be anything, and it can help, and…
Rahul Kumar: It can have many features, what we like, right?
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Rahul Kumar: So, what, here, what I can… I understand whatever you have told us.
Rahul Kumar: So, we are able to, you know.
Rahul Kumar: Understand how we are going to tokenize And,
Rahul Kumar: do the further steps for the text data, which is a textual data only, line by line. But for the CSV kind of format, how we can do that?
Sunny Savita: CSV kind of format, how to do that with me?
Rahul Kumar: means bad, we have a text data, right? Agar mere access…
Sunny Savita: Toh CSV mein Excel data nirak sakte, ka.
Rahul Kumar: ni CSV mein merpe sa kar multiple columns mein data hai, toh usko kese hum train karenge.
Sunny Savita: Tom kya karte hain, multiple text, multiple text column hook combined karke, final text column banan.
Sunny Savita: You know? Instruction valid data set mein apnek, last month text column deka hoga.
Sunny Savita: Hello?
Sunny Savita: Toh instruction, input, output ako combined karke, text column banaya, uspali ko humdenge model ko. Toh eks session aapko abweight karo, aapko seiz samajayki, abiak training aapde k logi na kasi fine-tuning karte, toho chija ako ke liyer hojayki, theek hain?
Rahul Kumar: usko kese garingke further.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, dataset ko, at the end ek, final dataset mehi ko kia jatha hai. Final column hai wok ye a jatay, append kia jatha, okay? Ausko fer model ko di jata training kil. Got it?
Rahul Kumar: uskam single column me convert karhenge.
Sunny Savita: Aww.
Rahul Kumar: Tenosco, train kernel.
Sunny Savita: Model coding. Correct, right.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Can I share my screen?
Rahul Kumar: I have one more doubt. So, I have 17 years of experience. I am in airline domain, okay?
Rahul Kumar: So, I am learning this AI to transit my role.
Rahul Kumar: So, it is possible.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah.
Rahul Kumar: If it's possible, currently I'm working as a journal manager.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so you.
Rahul Kumar: Currently, I am working as a journal manager.
Sunny Savita: So your work is a functional, or,
Rahul Kumar: My work is… Good.
Rahul Kumar: I am a… I am a technical leader. I am heading a team of… I am heading a technical team.
Rahul Kumar: Where we are doing multiple projects.
Rahul Kumar: I am in one of the airlines in India.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Yes, we'll see.
Rahul Kumar: you know, how I can leverage these AI capabilities in my organization, or later I can switch.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so see, you are already a tech lead, right? You are designing the entire architecture and all, right? And then you are giving that requirement to the developer, or you are, working on top of all the developer, developer or senior developer, correct? Right.
Sunny Savita: along with that knowledge, if you have an AI knowledge.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So that you can integrate inside your… any application, because nowadays, in every enterprise.
Sunny Savita: People want the AI-enabled application, AI-enabled solution. Got it? So let's say tomorrow is requirement coming, you have to integrate any AI feature, or you have to develop anything on top of the AI, right? So after learning this thing, you can do that. So along with your technical architect skill, you can associate this AI skill also.
Sunny Savita: So, whatever application you will be creating, that will be AI-enabled. Got it? Getting my point. Okay?
Rahul Kumar: Okay. So, last question. Suppose I have a… we have a product in our organization, which is, you know, normal C-sharp application, and has a huge data set.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Rahul Kumar: Now, we want to implement an AI which will work on that particular application only, like.
Rahul Kumar: uspek click karke, if we ask the question toh batare, I conse settings mere AWS account mein kaha ka horaki hai. So, that kind of functionality agar humko implement karne hai, toh hame kya rag implement karna padega.
Sunny Savita: dosere application mein aka karnai ushmein.
Rahul Kumar: It just savi Amazon.
Rahul Kumar: Amazon AWS console hai, uskenderikaikanata, AI se top karne gel hai.
Sunny Savita: Huh, AI chat portal.
Rahul Kumar: Amazon Q karke hai, uspeher mein chat kartung, to I can get the all information, but…
Rahul Kumar: I have set it in my AWS console, or agar, without I can ask. Those applications related, AWS console related, whatever configuration, you need to set there in that way. So, as is Tare say, achkal Jira gender be same AI chatbot agai.
Sunny Savita: Aha, you are a rag-based youth, yeah, actually.
Rahul Kumar: Agar message of na existing product.
Rahul Kumar: I need to set my own SQL dataset, right?
Sunny Savita: dataset se aapko answers chai, jase aapko chat karni hai. Jobhi aap rag board banar IO, document board banar IO, QA system banar IO, right? Toh se peli aapuk data gather karna palaya.
Sunny Savita: database mehein, Viva vault, SharePoint, kahi peh, wahan se aapko pura kalet karke, ekjagit dum karke, uskeup rag build kar sak kya, okay?
Rahul Kumar: Cheek, okay. Thank you.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: - can I… grill.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, sure, Vic, you can share.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, so before sharing, just one thing, like, it is on the second assignment. Second assignment was the web app, right? And we have only two assignments. One was BOWTFID app.
Sunny Savita: Can you share the screen? Can you share the screen?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, yeah.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, so this… this type of API app that you have said, that is the second assignment, right?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: this thing. So, my question is that I have already done it. I mean, I have to add the audio one, and I am using here Grok, Google, and Open, and also I have created a functionality because I was just trying to deploying it, and if any user is using, then they need to give their own API key. So, whenever you will first launch it, it will ask for the API key.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So, and then, OpenAI is only enabled. So, suppose, for example, if I am, selecting Google, and I am on the text-to-image, it will ask that you set OpenAI model, because OpenAI model is, in, is integrated with the thing.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: here I can, generate the, like, image as well. My point is that, now it is in this link.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: In my local hosting. So now, when you have said to share it with you, right? So, then, how to… how to share it with you?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: How, how I will share this link only?
Sunny Savita: No, no, this link, actually, it is in your local only.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yes, yes, so… Okay.
Sunny Savita: So it will not work. For that, you will have to deploy that, deploy this application somewhere.
Sunny Savita: So you can deploy it on any cloud.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, or else, if it is, like, a small application, you can deploy it via GitHub page only.
Sunny Savita: Right? So GitHub page is one of the way, or you can deploy it via any cloud. You can deploy it via Databricks also, okay, or a different, free option is also there. You can exploit that, and you can deploy that. Got it?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: It is saying, if I am going here in this thing.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: See, just… it is saying, I have tried once.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: See.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So, the same thing, yeah.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So, if I am going to deploy here now.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So it is saying Streamlit community, another thing. If I am just telling deploy now.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: This thing, the app code is not connected to remote GitHub repository to deploy Streamlit Community Cloud. Please put your code in a GitHub repository, publish the current branch, read more in our documentation. So, is it like that the app.py needs to be there in the GitHub?
Sunny Savita: Code should be there, actually. Whatever code you are running here, right, in your local, and you're getting this UI, correct? So that entire front-end and the backend code should be there, that you need to be deployed, got it?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, and only app.py, or the requirements file also needs to be there? Requirements file also.
Sunny Savita: No, just keep the entire working application there.
Sunny Savita: And, okay, and deploy that.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: And, I have used the Copilot, so I have one IPYINB, and then I have asked Copilot to create the app.py. So, IPYINB is not required, right? No, no, that is not required.
Sunny Savita: required. Correct. App.py is required.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, okay, thank you.
Sunny Savita: No.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Cindy, can you hear that?
Sunny Savita: No, wait, guys, let me call the name.
Sunny Savita: Guys, taking one minute of break, okay? Oh, wait.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, THR, you can go ahead now.
THR: Yeah, thank you, sir.
THR: So, I have three questions, sir. The first one…
THR: Regarding the, dataset, actually, so…
THR: So, can we modify the dataset, Sunny?
Sunny Savita: Which dataset?
THR: Like, I can face, let's say, you know, you, you said, you know, test classification data set, like, you know, there are three different, right? So, what is it, one is instruction, one is,
Sunny Savita: Aha, you can modify this, you can preprocess that, yep.
THR: But I was tried, sir, actually, so last night, I was, I was, I was, I was going with YouTube, YouTube channel, actually, so YouTube, you just made, you know, you explained everything there, so I was…
THR: So… so I just, you know, before a class, I was just reading… I was just going to that, and and understand. So, if any questions, I'll ask here, actually. So…
THR: So, there, you just show, you know, a custom datasets, or what When we come to…
THR: predefined dataset from Hugging phase, let's say Llama, or Llama… I'm doing with Llama 3 billion instruct model, okay? Now I need to go for,
THR: Tune on that, let's say.
THR: I have Wikipedia. Okay, my name is Bala Krishnarati, so I'm some… I'm a Lao AI engineer, so…
THR: So my goal is to…
THR: I had to train myself. I had to train my custom data to the existing data.
THR: So, agent should, let's say, who is Bhala Krishna Reddy? You should be able to say my name with the whatever my profession, actually, because I'm tuning that, right?
THR: So, how to achieve that, sir, actually? So, what I have done in the collab.
THR: I'm trying to do that, but I'm getting, you know… first, I'm trying to modify the data, that time it's getting out of memory, or like, you know, there's no sufficient on the, collab. And next, you know, I tried
THR: Again, I've just given a sample my text data, like, whatever my biotext data given to the tuning model.
THR: So, it is saying… so I need… it's insufficient, you know, I need more data to train, actually. So, I was stuck there, actually. So, if I… I cannot modify the existing data, I cannot… because I don't have a GBF data, RouteX data, right? So I just have a simple
THR: 10KB of… 10KB of data, but that model is… is not taking at all 10KB. It's asking me to give me the…
THR: More debt, actually.
THR: So, how to do that?
Sunny Savita: Which model, to which model you are providing data?
THR: Llama 3 billion instructor.
Sunny Savita: You can create some synthetic data also, no?
Sunny Savita: So, yeah, you're part of.
THR: What size are… what size it'll accept? Minimum size should be there.
Sunny Savita: How much rows and… rows you have inside the data.
THR: 10 rows max.
Sunny Savita: 10 or 6 hours, sir.
Sunny Savita: Nothing will happen to 10 rows. Just put at least, 150 to 200 rows, no?
THR: Okay…
Sunny Savita: Huh?
THR: I'll go for, tune that into, Llama3Billions, you should be able to answer my query, right, Inish?
Sunny Savita: That is… Hmm.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
THR: Right, that sort of… I was trying, and I got…
Sunny Savita: See, with 10 rows, you can just understand the process.
Sunny Savita: But if you want to get a real actual output, you'll have to give some more data to the modeler.
Sunny Savita: Alright? Let's say OpenA just trained their model with the 1GB or 2GB of data. That is also a model, but will be this much of capable.
Sunny Savita: No, right? So why this model this much of capable? Because they fade as much as data.
Sunny Savita: Right? So as much as knowledge you will provide to the model, it will provide you the better answer.
Sunny Savita: If you are providing 10 rows, instead of that, provide 100 rows. Not working, 500, then 1000, then increase incrementally that work. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Yep.
THR: Sure, sir.
THR: And, actually what I feel, sir, like, you know, your YouTube channel is very good, I mean.
Sunny Savita: -Oh.
THR: But…
THR: I'm sorry, actually. The energy you showed in the YouTube is very good, but here I saw some energy less, actually. Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I'll show more, okay, from next class.
THR: Yeah, thank you, sir. And one more thing, sir.
Sunny Savita: See, no, actually, no, see, there's a difference. YouTube videos are the controlled content, right? I'm creating in a controlled environment, everything in my control. I'm recording one part in morning, second in afternoon.
THR: Yeah, yeah.
Sunny Savita: da-da-da, right? So, that everything I'm doing in a controlled way, in my own control.
Sunny Savita: Okay, that is a recorded one, but live, basically, it's a different kind of way of teaching.
Sunny Savita: So, there, you are starting, you are then taking class doubts, and also, it's a longer process, and you have to be continuously speak there, right? So, yeah, don't worry, but in content, I will not negotiate. You will get everything over here as well, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
THR: Yeah, sure, thank you, sir. One more thing, write token… so, I have one more question. In aging in collab,
THR: IPMB file, so we are providing hf underscore token is equal to read or write token.
THR: So, a write token cannot read the contents, or only write is only for modifying?
THR: Right?
Sunny Savita: to keep the data over there. Even I didn't do this experiment, check if it is allowing to you to get something from the invest, okay?
THR: Yeah, my, yeah, correctly. Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah. Yup.
THR: Thank you, sir.
Sunny Savita: Just a thing.
THR: Great, yeah, bye.
Sunny Savita: take.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Raghwandra, what is your doubt?
Sunny Savita: Jyoti, jyoti or Raghwan, anyone is there? Go ahead.
Jyoti Gupta: Hi, Phil.
Raghvendra: Yep.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Raghwin, you can go ahead.
Raghvendra: Listeni, I'm facing… like, last two weeks, I missed the class due to some personal reasons, and when I gone through the videos, and after that, when I was practicing, I've been getting error.
Raghvendra: when I'm connecting to LLMs, back-end LLMs, right, by… I have used Gemini as well as the Grok.
Raghvendra: Both I am facing issues that invalid API key.
Raghvendra: So, I have created.
Sunny Savita: You didn't use the correct API key, or you used the correct.
Raghvendra: I am using the correct one.
Sunny Savita: Show me, show me, share the screen.
Raghvendra: Nick, give me a moment.
Sunny Savita: Jyoti, what's your doubt?
Jyoti Gupta: Sir, basically, hum jag bhi jitana bhi hum huh? Wang on-premises data pay karne hai, agar kush data cloud payer. Us keyski deal karin ya agar data cloud pay, ya, usme bhi humay je se rag mein pipeline bansi.
Sunny Savita: See, CLI is a login karneka, data go fetch karne ka, ya, S3 is a direct data direct fetch kar sakteo, right?
Sunny Savita: Kahim pe bhi data ho, data apne system. Let's say, in local system, I have to configure the AWS. Very simple. I'll download the AWS CLI, make a connectivity, or I'll use the AWS SDK over there.
Sunny Savita: Right? SageMaker SDK, or whatever, like, Bedrock SDK, something like that. So it's simple. Got it?
Jyoti Gupta: Sir, my second question is, you say, make, basically, end-to-end developer ETL plus reporting analyst. Toh, hum jabi ki integralte ham basically a scenario that is scenario based on Push the questions po.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Jyoti Gupta: Toh job agar, let's say kalko may journey hai ke liye apply karte, interview. Toh wa ha ham peri sehoseptia scenario-based questions, I hope.
Jyoti Gupta: be,
Sunny Savita: See, if you are… See, if you are basically an experienced one, right? If you're showing some.
Jyoti Gupta: I am having over 12 years of experience.
Sunny Savita: Huh, so they will ask you the project-related question.
Sunny Savita: And in the project, basically, they will ask you some scenario-based question also.
Sunny Savita: Right? They will give you some scenario, they will ask the tech stack of that, they will ask you to design that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, if this thing is happening, that God… why it is happening, something like that. So, as you will give interview, you will get that experience.
Sunny Savita: Understood.
Jyoti Gupta: Apart from your sessions, koi side PIP jahapiha may scenario-based questions nilapia. Just, like, preparatory.
Sunny Savita: I can share those questions. I have already more than 200 plus questions. You can prepare that, okay? That would be more than enough, but again.
Sunny Savita: See, if you're learning from anywhere, aap kaisehi pad rah owna, yechi aap cover nahi kar sakty ho. Ap ekdo scenario pad lobe pancre scenario paraloge.
Sunny Savita: Toh, practical karo, kam karo, hard project ko, hard bhi jo bhi code mein kar roundsko eza, practical treat kar ho ki baeh ye kainakiange kamaya ga.
Sunny Savita: Right? Okay, isse meh kya business problem, solve karne yungchen pad ranga koi bhi framework pad ranga. Toh se un chiro ko treat karna chiya.
Sunny Savita: may I even discuss bharunga in the live class, so that will be clarified, got it?
Jyoti Gupta: Sir, actually, problem ky, okay, abhi mein apply kar yuna, toh mein pas real project koi experience mehi.
Sunny Savita: So, you can do one or two projects here, okay? After that, basically, you can convert any problem statement into the end-to-end project.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Whatever you are seeing around to you in a generative AI in your current company also, current role, and that's the same thing you can carry forward into the next interview. Got it?
Jyoti Gupta: Okay, okay, sir. Yeah.
Jyoti Gupta: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
Raghvendra: I have shared my screen, are you able to see my screen?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I can see what you are getting.
Raghvendra: Sure, I'm getting right, invalid API key, that I have deleted API key and generated again.
Sunny Savita: Show me the API key, where it is.
Raghvendra: Oh, that I put… I have put in the environment variable here. It's a Grok API key and Google API key.
Raghvendra: So, we're done.
Sunny Savita: Wait, wait, wait, go with your notebook.
Sunny Savita: Open your notebook.
Sunny Savita: Now, first, to save the file, press Ctrl-S.
Sunny Savita: Huh.
Sunny Savita: Now, now do one thing, restart the kernel.
Sunny Savita: Oh.
Sunny Savita: Now, load the key, scroll up.
Sunny Savita: No, no, not this one, not this one. Scroll up where you're loading the key.
Sunny Savita: Oh, this one.
Raghvendra: Just loaded.
Sunny Savita: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Slowly, slowly. Now, create a new cell here. After this cell, grok API key, loaded. After this cell, create a new cell, code cell.
Sunny Savita: code cell, huh? Now, right here, Grok API key, write that variable name, Grok API key.
Sunny Savita: Print the Grok API key, I wanted to see that.
Raghvendra: Here, here I have pulled it.
Sunny Savita: Oh, run it, run it, run this one.
Sunny Savita: GST, this is the Ishunasar.
Sunny Savita: It's a wrong value, got it?
Raghvendra: GSK, this is the one, sir.
Raghvendra: Groppy baking.
Sunny Savita: No, something is wrong here.
Sunny Savita: Just save it, press Ctrl S. No, no, C. What value is coming over there?
Sunny Savita: Si.
Sunny Savita: In a single quote, 3 is also coming.
Sunny Savita: Right? The double code is also there. It's not a right thing.
Sunny Savita: Just write the correct value in the .env file.
Raghvendra: Oh, why it's coming free or something? Okay, I'll check that one.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so that is an issue. Just check it like this, you will get… got it?
Raghvendra: Okay, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, take… Okay, Raghavendra is done. Now, any more person having doubt? Vishal, Naveen, guys, having any doubt?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Naveen, please go ahead.
Naveen Babu: Sir, like, if I want to, like, learn, like, learn any concepts, like, how can I do that? Like, which concept do I need to learn if I want to apply for the jobs in the faster way?
Naveen Babu: Because currently.
Sunny Savita: For that, you can learn the RAG, you can learn the agents, you can learn the cloud, okay?
Sunny Savita: how to deploy that agentic and the rack-based application, I mean, RLM-based application.
Sunny Savita: And, basically cloud-specific… GenAI-specific cloud services, okay?
Naveen Babu: Okay, like, if you have any intro questions, can you please share with me?
Sunny Savita: Okay, I'll share that. Just drop me a meal, I'll share, okay?
Naveen Babu: Okay, sure.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Naveen Babu: Interesting.
Sunny Savita: Oh… just… just a second…
vishal srivastava: And, Sunny, we shall decide.
Sunny Savita: You have a shot.
vishal srivastava: Sunny, I have one question. So, I'm planning to have a developer, like, start a simple project.
vishal srivastava: To train the, small language model.
Sunny Savita: Like.
vishal srivastava: I have one, business use cases, like,
vishal srivastava: behavior science, okay? To read the kids' behavior, and, demand the, training after that, okay?
vishal srivastava: So if I have to do it, what are the steps I have to take? I know that I can install the Ollama in my local machine, or some… in cloud, or somewhere else.
vishal srivastava: But how I will start and make progress in this? Can you guide me the steps, what I have to do?
Sunny Savita: Boop.
Sunny Savita: You want to train a small language model, behavioral science, right?
Sunny Savita: So, first of all, you should have a data.
Sunny Savita: Means, first of all, you have to, first of all, define the problem. I think you already defined.
Sunny Savita: Correct?
Sunny Savita: According to that, you should have what? You should have a data, behavioral data, or psychological data, develop… child development data, whatever, right? Expert data.
Sunny Savita: case study, something like that, right? So, collect the data, convert into the specific format. That's the first thing.
Sunny Savita: Now, second thing, basically, you need to be decide.
Sunny Savita: What interview decide? Do you want a training, or you just want to create a rag on top of the existing LLM?
Sunny Savita: Okay? So what you can do, if you don't want to be trained the LLM from, means if you don't want to be fine-tuned any SLM, what you can do, you can keep the data into the vector database, you can ask any question to the vector database, whatever response you are getting, you are passing it to the LLM, and from there, you can generate the answer. Simple rack pipeline you can build.
Sunny Savita: So, without fine-tuning itself, you can build that system.
Sunny Savita: Understood?
Sunny Savita: So, RAG plus any existing LLM. Got it? Now, let's see if you wanted to fine-tune that. So, you can start from the basic model. Choose a small model. What is a good starter here?
Sunny Savita: Phi 3 Mini, coin 2.5, 3 billion parameter model, GIMA model, Llama 3.23 billion model, these are the small models.
Sunny Savita: you can start with this model, okay? Create a proper data set according to those fine-tuning. Let's say you're doing instruction fine-tuning. So take a base model, any good base model, the model which I told you, apply the LoRa on top of that, perform the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: And after that, evaluate that one, right? Whether it is working fine or not, measure some accuracy. If it is doing hallucination, what you can do, on top of that model, whatever you find you, you can add the RAG as well.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so you can take the hybrid approach over there. Understood.
vishal srivastava: Okay. Okay. Understood. Yeah. Okay.
vishal srivastava: Okay, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, think.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Bishar is done now. Ashwini, do you have any doubt, again?
Sunny Savita: Hello, hello, Ashwini, I am not able to unmute you.
Sunny Savita: Just a second… yeah, now you can check… you can ask your doctors.
Sunny Savita: Hello, can you hear me, Ashuni?
Sunny Savita: Hello?
Sunny Savita: I'm not able to unmute, and now I can… now I unmuted you, please ask.
Sunny Savita: Hello, Ashuni, can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine, I think he is having some problem with the microphone, so you can write in the committee chat, or directly mail to me, okay?
Sunny Savita: Thank you guys, bye, take care, I'll see you in the next class.